I know like when I last looked at work
today but she must have just uploaded
him because I've been online
yeah I think there's someone that has a
dead battery
I called
I'll call this meeting to order
please stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance
the chair needs a motion to approve the
agenda
take a motion to approve the agenda
I have a first and a second to approve
the agenda all those in favor say aye
the agenda is approved
the chair asks needs a motion for to
approve the board meeting minutes from
August 2nd 2023 and August 9th 2023.
I make a motion to approve the
meet board meeting minutes from August
2nd 2023 to August 9 2023.
okay I have a first do I have a second
okay I have a second discussion
um just one question before approving
these minutes I just was curious the
status of the other minutes that we're
missing
they're in the process being
um
developed right now
so hopefully we'll have it we'll see
them next time correct
okay thank you
thank you for the extended version on
these it's nice to see that
okay
all those in favor of the meeting
minutes please say aye aye
okay the meeting minutes are approved
okay next up is comments from the
audience limit two minutes
first up
did I miss something
um actually
chair Rutledge I just realized because I
went on I had downloaded this whole
packet and the meeting minutes I was
able to get them to review them really
quickly from Vice chair brown but they
aren't posted and so for some reason on
the regular site I don't know if they're
posted on the board's board book you
have to speak in
the meeting minutes are
meeting minutes are actually not posted
on the website I was able to see them
from Vice chair um brown but they're not
showing up on the public website and I
didn't go back into board books but if
they're not there just a note that
they're not in board books either they
are not onboard books they are on the
district website the minutes that have
been approved are on but I did miss
getting them up on here yes
okay thank you
okay
um on to public comments first up is Dan
Brown
my name is Dan Brown a parent and live
in West Palmer County thanks for coming
to the lake
first up on the policy uh
uh chairman or Margie addressed that but
also in the policies and review it'd be
nice to list them on the website the
ones that are being
um spoken about sorry can you hear me
now here go ahead and pick it up
all right this or this yeah all right uh
policies and review status it'd be nice
to post them on the website there's a
spot for them on the district website I
just didn't find any of them there
um and then on uh virtual learning side
of things uh I think we are in a good
place right now that connectivity is an
issue here at Priest Lake as well as
other places in West Bonner County so
something to take into consideration
um and then went down for wonders uh was
being discussed the curriculum part of
the argument against wonders was it had
an online content and a version of that
was going to be virtual and folks felt
that wasn't going to be fair to students
that lack connectivity
and then three
when it comes to the virtual learning
who will control the content of the
virtual learning will be a concern of
mine and that's all I had
thank you
next up is uh Brooke Ramsey
[Music]
hi excuse me Brooke Ramsey for the
record I want to address the gender
policy
um and so regarding the sex space
restrooms I noticed that uh
it said if somebody requested
accommodations those will be provided so
I'm wondering what those accommodations
looks like if a student does request
those as far as a different restroom or
changing facility also if we're talking
about student safety I would like to
focus Less on pronouns on more what is
actually a safety issue Idaho code
1883-29 which deals with registered
sexual sexual offenders on school
grounds which they can come to during
teacher conferences sporting events
extracurriculars voting that type of
thing but the ones that concern me are
the ones where there's going to be kids
around
um
states that there's nothing to prevent
school districts from adopting more
stringent safety requirements concerning
sexual offenders on school grounds I
would like to ask what stricter stricter
restrictions do we have a place to keep
our children safe
I did read our district policy and I
appreciate that we have more protocol
than is what state is mandated but I
would like to know though what exactly
does it mean
when it says that the sexual offender
must remain under supervision of a
science School official does that mean
that that school official sits next to
them at a basketball game or at a
football game or does that just mean
they have to be in the same building
basically I would just like some
clarification on that matter thank you
[Applause]
next up Sandy Brower
Sandy Brower for the record
um I was able to attend a town hall held
on Saturday and at the Town Hall it was
indicated that we were ten thousand
dollars in the rears for Verizon so I
did look at the bills and I wondered why
we're not paying them this month or paid
them last month I also looked past to
January 2022 and saw a payment to
Verizon for every month so curious if we
can get some more
um Clarity on that
um also wanted to know why the district
didn't pay the water bill to the city
last month I see that we are late on
that one and I want to know why Mr Durst
isn't being paid as well so the clarity
on that
um and also curious why the admin salary
options are being considered prior to
teachers having been provided a contract
and the other thing about the minutes
I'm glad Margie brought that up we're
missing a lot of minutes minutes that
are even approved or not on this site on
on board book which typically they're on
the board book so they're not there and
the minutes that have been approved I'm
curious
we've got minutes approved before June
and after June yet the June 27th 28th
and July 5th are not approved yet and
seeing how in order for Brandon to apply
for an emergency provisional
certification he would need the minutes
approved from June 28th I want to assume
good intent here however I've requested
these minutes to be approved for several
meetings prior to this one so I'm kind
of curious what's going on with that and
I already request that the chair and the
superintendent place these on the agenda
for the next meeting but now I'm really
concerned about that too because that'll
be after you apply because I think
you're applying at the end of the month
so if my understanding is correct and
maybe you guys can clear it up is that
the minutes need to be approved
and so I'm curious when that's going to
get done so I know I sound like a broken
record
but get those minutes on the agenda
next next up Katie alsazer and she has
requested four minutes
thank you can everyone hear me yes okay
I'm just going to talk because the mic
seems to be
um so thanks for the additional time
um most of this is actually directed to
Mr George but I wanted to address the uh
the handbook that's being proposed as
well as graduation requirements
um for several years now the high school
handbook and the board policy
graduation requirements don't line up so
if a student goes on to the high school
website and clicks the graduation
requirements that goes to the board
policy versus the handbook you have two
different numbers now everyone who's
been in District for a long time knows
we've switched from six period days to
block schedules eight periods and
everyone that makes credits shift
problem is right now we have seniors
going into their senior year and while
there's changes to the amount due to the
four day school week and the Seven
period day there's not a aligned board
policy being proposed so seniors who are
about to start school in two weeks they
don't have a clear credit requirement
there's not there's not a clear thing
because it says ultimately it goes to
board policy so the board members don't
line up with his hand with the high
school's handbook so I think that really
needs to be addressed sooner rather than
later additionally I don't know if a new
guidance counselor has been hired when I
was in high school we used to be able to
go work on our schedules before school
starts the last I don't know how long
you end up having students going to the
guidance counselor in the first two
weeks of School Changing schedules and
it's just chaos like the first week of
school just is nothing people are
changing in and out of classes I think
it would be wise to consider changing
that whether it's this year or other
years back to the previous thing where
the week before school started could
come in and make adjustments to schedule
so if you needed to take a different
class I have one kid who is trying to
graduate early and so there's certain
class adjustments and it wasn't very
clear by Miss Estes whether those class
assignments are there so I think the
board policy needs to be adjusted so we
know an actual what the seniors are
actually going to need to graduate
because they do start in two weeks and I
think at least the seniors should be
allowed to come in prior to the first
week of school and make sure that their
schedule aligns with what that is going
to be because it's going to be a lot of
chaos if you have people that think they
have all their credits and then they
find out halfway through their senior
year we had that when I was in school
it's not ideal so I think that should be
a priority for the board for the
superintendent and for the high schools
to get that all squared away so there's
accurate information
additionally
um the lunch thing I had an issue when
that was changed where all of a sudden
sophomores needed to wait a quarter
before they could go in I think you
should be reconsidered that if a
freshman managed to have a good GPA they
shouldn't have to prove it again the
first quarter to have open campus I get
the intent is to make it a privilege but
if a freshman has a 3.5 or 4 and then
they still have to wait a quarter to
prove they can get a 2.5 I feel like
you're not acknowledging the hard work
they did freshman year
finally the no loitering in cars
um I get the intent there is probably
vaping or inappropriate behaviors I mean
there's times where my daughter makes
call for me on lunch to talk and doesn't
want to do it in the hallway so I think
you're kind of limiting
um their space to have like a private
phone call by saying you can't be in the
car also you're encouraging tardies
because you're going to have kids who
don't come back onto campus till the
last second after lunch just so they
don't have to go into the school if they
want to be on their phone or talking
with their friends so I think that
should be maybe looked into a little bit
further
um so that's that covers most of that
that I had and then obviously there's a
lot of tension and I just want to remind
the whole community that just treat
people kindly and respectfully you know
I mean I I you know love your enemies do
good to those that hate you I mean take
a little take a little step back
everyone just and and remember that I
think everyone could use a little bit of
a reminder of that the kids don't need
to go into the school year with a
negative connotation and so let's just
let's you know let's be Priest River so
thank you
yeah
and thank and thank you chair for the
additional time I appreciate it you're
welcome
next up Kathy Nash
Kathy Nash for the record
I was going to talk about the Bells
and um
I was wondering how often the board
superintendent or the tech department go
over the software licenses for the
district needs I noticed how much of the
invoices for tonight were renewal fees
and was just hoping that somebody's
checking those to make sure that we're
actively using them
every year
there seems to be a lot of overdue bills
listed I calculated almost 20 000 bills
that should have been paid in June
I also noticed on the Wells Fargo
statement all the charges were for
hotels and travel expenses these were
charged on the Food Services and
transportation department cards it seems
there are an overabundance of travel
each month is there any way we can have
it listed who is doing the travel and
for what purposes
um and then I had my final question was
about the
the
industry
invoice and there's
Junior High and high school designs as
well as the high school preliminary
design for 61k
I don't remember this expanse passing
before the board for approval all of
these invoices were dated for 531 so
again why wasn't this right in the
business office submit them to the board
in June
okay
[Applause]
with that I need a motion to close
public comments I'll make a motion to
close public comment okay but first do I
have a second
okay
um before voting I would just wondered
if there's anyone I would maybe call to
see if there's anyone who didn't sign up
okay
did anybody
is anybody
wanting to speak they didn't sign paper
or fill out a paper
okay I have a first now I need a second
oh second okay all those in favor of
closing
okay first by k um Vice chair Brown
second by uh trustee Hall all those in
favor closing public comment please say
aye
okay public comment is closed
next is old business I need a motion to
Grant authority to superintendent to
develop a facilities use plan
I will make a motion or would you like
me to bring it to the table or just make
a motion to a grand authority to
superintendent just make a motion
develop a facility use plan okay I have
a first do I have a second
okay I have a second granting authority
to superintendent to develop a
facilities use plan debate
and I guess
um would that be using some of the
examples that you we were presented in
coming up with a new one Mr chairman
trustee Hall so I had a meeting with our
admin team this afternoon the intention
would be that I would collaborate with
those School leaders to develop a plan
that we can just use for each one of
their buildings that are specific to
what their building needs would be and
it'd be something that's agreed upon by
all of them it makes sense for the
district along with the input from other
impacted departments including
operations so that way we had the
ability to do that but that way it keeps
it out of the so that way we have a
predictable process for people to
utilize if they want to utilize their
buildings okay and how would we track
those would there be a location where
all the all of them would central
location for keeping those Mr chairman
and trustee Hall the intention that I am
taking up on any number of fronts in the
district office or to digitize
everything that we can and have those
ability to have those forms and process
documents available for public
consumption on their website
okay that's that's all I have I think at
this that's all I have okay I just want
to make another comment um are you still
approving
um
or honoring the previous facilities use
plans that were already submitted from
our
uh yes those are grandfathered in okay
thank you
any other debate
okay all those in favor of granting
Authority the superintendent to develop
a facilities use plan please say aye
those opposed okay the motion carries
next up I need a motion to bring to the
table the second reading of board policy
3289 on biological sex
I make a motion to bring the reading of
the second
um or excuse me the second reading of
the board policy 3289 on biological six
okay but first do I have a second
I'll make a second okay I have a second
um second for a second reading of board
policy 3289 on biological sex debate
um my concern again is that this
particular
policy as it's written combines ex
actually addressing a facility policy
series 9000 and a student policy series
3000 it puts them all into one it
doesn't do a good job of really doing
um addressing some of the issues that
the woman Miss Ramsey I think talked
about we I did present at least a
template for a 3281 gender identity and
sexual orientation and a facility
separated by sex that would fall under a
9605 policy and again my concern is this
is a little bit too it's not detailed
enough in terms of its description and
that's would be my major concern on this
one
okay any other debate
it's online it's right there and here it
is
foreign
do I have a motion to accept the policy
make a motion to accept the policy 32.89
board policy on biological sex
for the second read
okay I have a motion do I have a first
do I have a second
I'll second it okay I have a second by
trusty rainbow for second reading of
board policy 3289 on biological sex
all those in favor say aye aye aye
those opposed
I abstain for the reasons I stated
this is a just a technical matter that
as that our technology director reminded
us that if we don't at least talk into
our mics people that are listening to us
online won't be able to hear us so to
the extent that that's for their benefit
it would be appreciated
okay
okay next
next up I need a con I need a motion to
consideration approval of a preliminary
bus route maps and times I'll make a
motion to a consideration approval of
preliminary bus route routes and map
route maps and times okay I have a first
do I have a second I second that
okay
debate
um I am curious like do you have a
question on that one and I'll try to do
this so people can hear me
um and I don't know if charity is here
she's not she's not okay
um
so all right so my question is
I've in her cover letter of the 14th she
said um if if we were to open it up it
says board consideration approval reps
area maps please keep in mind the times
on the maps are not correct unable to
have a new times till late October
so I'd like to know you know explanation
why late and then
um I'm assuming that parents are
provided the revised drop-off and pick
up times before school starts because
October is a little late to have the
kids know
they're going to miss the first month
and you know kicking them out and
running around but no um I just would
like an answer to those questions please
Mr chairman if I may trustee Hall my
understanding having spoke with staff is
they like to take their roots for for a
month and see how they're working and
then after that takes place then they
see if there's places that they could
gain greater efficiency with the roots
um so that's the that's the main reason
at least from what I've been told as to
why they they this is preliminary and as
far as I know about the route about the
communication with with vote with
parents
um I believe our building principles can
speak to this a bit more directly
um but it'll be my hope and I suspect
the hope of our billing administrators
as well that we would be able to
distribute that at a time when they have
a back to school night or some sort of
parent meeting so those things can be
communicated before school starts
okay
thank you can I can I add to that I
spoke to charity today and the morning
pickup times will be the same and then
the afternoon times parents should
expect an hour later than what is on
there and then she said she'll ride the
routes in October and they'll make any
adjustments that need to happen
okay I mean I knew the the first the
morning hour was the same it was the
afternoon hour and is that will that be
the same for like up here at Priest Lake
I think the elementary schools up here
might be I don't know if it is it's
exactly an hour later that's would be
something to look into that is what she
shared with me okay thanks
okay do I have a motion to consideration
approval of preliminary bus route maps
and times
yeah I'll make a motion to approve the
preliminary bus route maps and times
okay I have a first from trustee Hall I
have a second I have a I have a second
from Vice chair Brown all those in favor
please say aye aye those opposed okay
the motion carries
I need a motion to bring to the table
consideration and approval of bus
disciplinary handbook I'll make a motion
to bring to the table for consideration
and approval of us disciplinary handbook
I'll second that
okay I have a first from trustee Hall a
second from Vice chair Brown
for consideration and approval of the
bus disciplinary handbook debate
um
I have a question I know that last year
when we were looking at this in terms of
or earlier this year we were looking at
the disciplinary issues and I wondered
if the special ed director has looked at
this to make sure that we're not um not
make sure that we're in compliance with
any special ed considerations I know
that there was kind of an issue with
that last time
Mr chairman and trustee Hall actually to
my knowledge that has not yet occurred
but yeah
but that's uh that's a really good good
point because we we ran into that last
year in terms of the discipline and some
of those considerations
Mr chairman if I could yield to uh Lynn
Parker yes please
okay
so I guess my follow-up question is what
kind of timing do we have if we were to
say table this for review and then
actually some grammar and some comment
commas and things like that that I was
noticing missing
um can we do that do we have enough time
to do that Mr chairman and trustee Hall
I I actually we know for sure we have to
have a meeting on the 25th for the
preliminary report for Mike Bailey so
that's that's a certainty that we're
going to have that meeting as long as
the chair agrees with that and puts it
on the agenda but that's the intention I
believe and I think it's your points
well taken about speaking to sped and
and taking into consideration the
comments for Mrs Parker as well that
would be who the board to hold this
until a date certain of January until
August 25th okay
and I would um
thank you I think isn't that in our new
um I don't know where charity got this
but I know that we went back and forth
on that and and I'm wondering is if um
foreign
step two last time and we made step
three step two
I think we were going to try to tighten
up what we originally had like two years
ago and then we when we realized when Ms
Shaner looked at it after we did that
she she said this is too stringent so it
might be who
um revisiting I probably I have a copy
in my documents of and it would be on
board books
um under we usually approve this about
the same time July or August and we
might want to look at what was there and
and just sort of double check
um okay do you have a motion to table
this until August 25th uh yes I'll make
a motion to table this to our next our
next meeting whether it be regular
special meeting
okay I have a motion do I have a second
I second that
okay I have a second all those in favor
of tabling consideration and approval of
bus disciplinary handbook until August
25th please say aye
okay the motion carries
Mr chairman just a point of
clarification the motion that was made
by the motion maker was to postpone this
to the next special meeting the next
special or it was in a date certain it
was to a special meeting well in case
there happens to be clarification for
the board Clerk
uh next step I need a motion for second
reading to amend policy
5900 relating to first aid CPR training
for coaches
I'll make a motion to bring to the table
second reading to amend policy 5900
relating to first aid CPR training for
coaches
okay but first do I have a second I
second that okay I have a second from
trustee uh Vice chair Brown
debate
none
make a motion to approve the second
reading of a policy 5900. okay I have a
motion to approve do I have a second
I'll second that okay I have a second
from trustee burton all those in favor
of this uh approving the second reading
to amend policy 5900 relating to first
aid CPR training for coaches please say
aye aye
the motion carries
next is a board member report do I have
any board members that have a report
um I have a quick one on negotiations
okay
um just to say that we are continuing to
negotiate with the certified staff and
to come with and that the next meeting
is on Monday August 21st at 5 30
district office and that's just to
briefly just want to let people know
I have another statement that I'd like
to present
go on record for the board
on August 10th we received an email from
Cena Lackey she's the director of
certification and press Professional
Standards for Idaho State Department of
Ed
in the letter she had stated that Mr
Durst and any of the or and a few it
says recently employed individuals had
not completed their background checked
which is well past the five-day grace
period
[Music]
so I just want to put on record that as
of this morning I did talk to Cena they
have received it on Monday which is well
past the time that I was quoted by Mr
Durst four weeks ago
where he said that he had submitted it
and it was approved for him and Brandi
so I just want to go on the record
saying that that was not true
and as of right now though it is in
process and so
I just want to make clarification that
we were unaware of that
may I ask a follow-up question to
trustee Barton um
that's okay did Ms Lackey say anything
in terms of is there anything that we
should be concerned about as trustees
about with regards to their processing
those at this point in time
she said at this point in time they
received them this morning
and they are in process
so they were not submitted prior to this
which is well past our five-day limit
that the state gives us as a grace
period from employment day of employment
okay any other comments
okay next up principal reports
hi I'm Lynn Parker the principal at
Priest River Elementary School and so
um at our admin meeting today we talked
about the things that we should share
with you that people have been calling
the district and have some questions
about and so I'd like to talk to you
about what our enrollment is right now
and
um seeing this this afternoon kind of
shocked me so I'm going to tell you who
my teachers are and what position but
they may have to move based on numbers
okay so right now we have 375 students
enrolled but that means we only have 25
kindergartners but I'm sure we will get
more prior to school starting
we have 68 first graders which means our
first grade classes with two and a half
will be around 27 28 students
um my second grade is around 27 students
average with a the combo in the middle
which would have about the same number
third grade will be about 25 to 26 my
fourth grade is where I think I'm going
to need to move a teacher they only have
50 students which would be 25 students
in fourth grade with each classroom if I
had two and it's going to make it 17. 18
if I make it 3 which is really low when
I have those High numbers in first and
second grade so
that being said I called my new teacher
that I hired on my way here today and
made sure to inform her so she doesn't
get
just some news from this meeting that
I'm moving her without her knowing so I
made sure to call her and so fourth
grade is a little scary fifth grade has
two teachers at 47 so they're going to
be great they'll be about 24 students in
a class and sixth grade is going to be
about 26 students so they're at 52
students in that grade level so new
teachers
um
I've been working really hard I want to
thank Susie and
um Peggy and Michelle Wendell and Casey
um
Nelson and let me think Beth Pettit and
Rhonda Klein for attending those with me
and helping me to find Qualified and the
best people for our positions and they
have come in on their own time and I do
really want to commend them for doing
that and so right now
um in second grade we will have
well I can tell you about kindergarten
we had Michelle mcconville moved from
first grade to
um
to kindergarten so we hired Alexis Riley
in first grade and she is and it had an
amazing amazing interview and I'm very
excited to be working with her
in second grade we were lucky to bring
Darlene Ramey over from Idaho Hill
um in third grade I had an interview
today and I interviewed interviewed
Alicia Francis and she's coming from the
Coeur d'Alene area and she had a great
interview today and I'm very excited
about working with her
and my fourth grade teacher the one I
called is Amanda Moran and she did her
student teaching with us last year and
so we're very excited to be able to
offer her a job and so I did call and
let her know that it could be in first
and second depending on the teachers
that are there what they what basically
what Miss Nelson would like to do
um
because she's the combo and that's the
one that would split and then
um
I'm very excited like I said she's going
to be great she did her student teaching
in first grade and she did some
observation the year before in fourth
grade so I'm very excited to work with
her
and I have fifth grade teacher Topanga
Wallace and she's going to be an Ela
teacher in fifth grade we have Christine
Alexander she's going to be doing Ela in
writing in sixth grade and we have
Jordan munar and he's going to do math
and science and so I'm very excited
about all of the people we were able to
find and we still have some open
positions in Special Ed I was lucky and
Joanne Walker from the junior high
volunteered to come over to pre and so
we're going to have a tenured person
there and then I have a meeting with
Courtney our director and two potential
people that we've already interviewed
this year that would fall in fit into
those positions if we can talk him into
it so wish us luck
and so we also talked today about back
to school events at our schools and I
know parents are very concerned about
that we will be having
my teachers I have to meet with my
building leadership team because I
really work as a team at my site but
what I think I foresee happening is
we'll probably do on Friday September
1st a
um meet and greet and it will be during
school hours because in the contract day
the teachers only have to come one night
in the school year after contract hours
and so we'll do a meet and greet between
2 and 4 15. I think that's when contract
hours are going to be it will change
depending on the contract and then
either the first or second week we will
have a back to school night where
parents can come in in the evening and
have our parents our teachers ready for
that so those are the things that I
wanted to share with you
and if you guys have any questions
thank you
[Applause]
Susie lucky for the record
at Idaho Hill Elementary currently we
have 17 kindergartners enrolled 26 first
graders 28 second graders
14 third graders
26 fourth graders 19 fifth graders and
21 sixth graders for a total of 151
students
we hired a new second grade teacher who
I think will be a great addition to the
team and we just hired Brittany Smith
who is just transferring from a job she
had in the district to our special
service resource room teacher
at Priest Lake Elementary
we are planning on roughly about 60
students and we have reorganized the
grade levels and I say that to you
tentatively because this school hasn't
opened yet the secretary comes in in
another week and then we'll know for
sure who's coming who's going but we are
planning on a K12 led by Sarah Butler
a 3-4 combination room and we hired
Rachel Gilbert who's in a teacher and
long-term term sub in the district as
well as then we'll have a fifth sixth
grade combination classroom with
Michelle Barnes
um we are currently still looking to
hire a music teacher we had one
application offered the position but
they turned it down so I just
received information today from the
Music Association one of the head
teachers that works with that they have
they are
looking for us as well as she has some
ideas about how to run a music program
with a paraprofessional or Community
member she's got a couple choices so if
anybody is very Musical and you want to
work with k-6 at our three elementary
schools come and see Lynn or I okay
we're also looking at a technology
paraprofessional for Priest Lake
Elementary and then we should be staffed
at those schools as of today
this summer Idaho Hill Elementary
received three grants that they applied
for our steam room
received a 2300 grant for coding
materials for our K2 students we
received a three thousand dollar Grant
to continue with our free book giveaway
and Ann Chamberlain received the Arts
Grant to continue with the dance program
um I believe that I'm going to switch
gears now to District to Federal
programs and I believe that Brandi gave
you a form that is titled housing survey
late this afternoon
um and we're getting ready in all of our
school offices district-wide the
students always get a package of papers
that they have to fill out parents have
to fill out and return so what I wanted
to show you tonight is this is the
survey that we send out to all of our
students this helps us determine if a
student would be eligible under the
mckinney-vento act and that in in other
terms is homeless if they're eligible
under homeless and the reason I wanted
the board members to have that is
because we read about homelessness all
the time in the world but under the
guidelines for school
there are
there's a list here on the bottom of the
page that will describe to you what
doubled up means or inadequate housing
or these are the categories that we
would as child would be eligible for
this act so what happens with this Farm
is the parent fills this out or if a
student is just living with somebody
else's parent
they fill this out they turn it back
into with their packet of papers that
have to be returned to the school office
and then the secretary send this form to
myself and Miss Olivia at Idaho Hill and
then I
because I'll be acting as the homeless
liaison this year
I will be then contacting this parent
and there's a whole list of questions
that I visit with them about and
determine if they are eligible and if
they are eligible then there's a whole
list of things to have access to such as
automatic free and reduced lunch
tutoring hygiene
products all kinds of things like that
so I just wanted you to be aware because
we talk about that a lot and I thought
you would be interested in seeing the
survey that goes out and then we
actually are required by law to send
another survey out at semester time
and then speaking to you about
community-wise
with our preserver Community Foundation
literacy team Megan mice contacted me
will be meeting and getting ready we'll
be offering the ready for kindergarten
program the fall winter and spring
program to All Families in West Bonner
County District I know Jessica Brown
does it up here at the lake but then
Megan takes care of Priest River
Blanchard area and then we also have our
Dolly Parton Flyers Imagination Library
for our birth to age five for parents to
sign up for the free book a month and I
believe we are up to about
160 children that we're serving at this
time and we've graduated out about
55. so that's all I have for tonight
thank you
[Applause]
hi there I'm Loretta Glazier the new
principal at the junior high
um I'll start with staff or students I
will have so far 92 7th graders and 82
8th graders
um I guess the beauty of that is I had
both groups of students in sixth grade
so I'm super excited about being able to
help them and help facilitate their
learning I know we were to submit
handbooks tonight I am not finished with
mine so I did ask for an extension
um you know I was hired a little bit
late but I also I met with Angie Goins
the athletic director because I just
wanted to get her input and I felt that
the handbook it's it was 42 pages long
it was pretty
um
extensive or and I just felt a lot of
parents were probably not going to read
all of that so I wanted to kind of
simplify and so I'm creating an athletic
handbook I'm creating a student handbook
that's really in simple terms for them
that I'm um I want advisory teachers and
I'll speak to that in a minute that they
will go through and then a parent
handbook
for pertinent information for them
because not everything is relevant to
students so that's the reason I'm I
almost have it completed all three and
I'll get it to you as soon as I can
um
let's see I've met several staff members
they've come in just to introduce
themselves I have Laura Hall as my
secretary and she is amazing she has
been so helpful and I am blessed to have
her at the school for sure Liz cork has
been in multiple times also helping me
also amazing
um Matt and I have gotten together we
are most likely going to be sharing a
librarian
my library assistant left
my special ed teacher Lynn stole her
from me so that's been put out and
posted for a new position I did request
for an additional science teacher
and the reason for that is because bran
and Lang
um he was a seventh grade math teacher
last year
I asked I I spoke with both Morgan and
Brandon and to see if they would be
willing to switch positions so that
Brandon now teaches eighth grade math
and Morgan would go down to seventh
grade and part of my reason for doing
that is because Brandon just got his 612
endorsement to teach algebra so he will
be teaching eighth grade
students the highly qualified so that
they can get a high school credit
and in case there are some 8th grade
students who he feels can move up I mean
he will know them and he'll under he
he's he knows that content well
so the reason for the science teacher
posting is because I'm short and Brandon
is also
a electrical engineer or chemical
engineer one of the two and so I thought
okay he could do science
but that like maybe two sections but the
problem with that is he's a relatively
new teacher
to do
algebra a couple sections of eighth
grade math and then a couple sections of
science that's a lot that's
overburdening a single teacher and
especially one who's fairly new
um so I have I've put in that request
um
the two exploratory teachers over the
summer went and got their endorsement to
teach CTE so that's really exciting
they're going to be doing that this
second semester so that they can get
together kind of collaborate they need
to understand the standards and where
they're going to be going with that so
the first semester will be their
exploratory classes that they generally
teach keyboarding or cooking or whatever
they generally do and then the second
semester will be that CTE component
um
what else
I think that's about it do you have any
questions for me
it's good I don't think so welcome thank
you thank you thank you
[Applause]
sorry I got a lot tonight my apologies
um first off Staffing we're almost full
we have uh one math position that's
still open uh we offered it in that
person couldn't make the move up from
Boise he couldn't convince his wife to
make the move from Boise in that short
of time so that map position is still
open we have an Ace in the Hole just in
case um would have to be an alternate
certification but the position is still
open I also have a life skills position
we do have a backup plan uh just like we
did with our life skills students last
year those three could be served through
through another teacher we do have a
parapro in there all the time
um so some new staff so we're basically
full except for for those some new staff
to talk about
um because everybody wants to know about
new teachers we have Mrs Taylor who's a
language arts teacher from Forks
Washington nickname is already Twilight
um if you like the Twilight series she's
a super Dynamic positive individual can
also offer some dual credit pick up that
dual credit piece for for us as well
through Nic Mr Monk is an Idaho guy
um he was over at the all-girls school
boarding school for
behavioral all girls school so he knows
his way around the classroom has his
Masters in instruction been in the
classroom for many years since a strong
instructor as well have an entirely new
math department once we all three of
them will be new once we fill that third
position oh forgot about one Mr Weimer
has a language arts and English
certification they'll take the
alternative route to fulfill our sped
sped population Navy retiree so we
should be able to handle any any issues
in the classroom as well also has a his
teaching certification Mr Barton comes
from the college realm teaching math as
he's a stats guy so he'll be able to
offer us some college credit statistics
and other courses for us as well Nicole
Anderson comes from the Boise area I
believe it was Columbia High School down
in the Nampa area she's taught for 20
something years taught dual credit uh
her in her past history as well so
she'll be offer some dual credit for
classes as well
um
we were able to pull up Janice Mitchell
from the elementary school to fill a
counselor role at the high school we got
just got her her laptop and got herself
set up today for an hour or so she'll be
in Monday to start her work getting kids
scheduled and things like that
um we're gonna we're gonna hit her
ground hit the ground run with that on
Monday
um and Michelle Larson was our tennis
secretary she's moved over into the Gear
Up near peer position so we don't lose
that funding and she'll do a great job
with that as well
I think that's all the new staff I think
I don't think I missed anybody uh
projected enrollment uh for roll over
the kids from last year to this year
we're looking at 97 freshmen 71
sophomores 86 Juniors and 55 seniors for
a total of 307 senior classes that last
group of a small that small bubble
that's that's coming through but again
we're back up to almost 100 freshmen had
four or five students and parents walk
in today to register and set up
appointments for that so add to that 307
also had four or five emails while I was
sitting here today from students and
parents that they will not be returning
so
307.
um
as you could as you heard from our new
staff we're looking at adding more dual
credit classes that was one of the
reasons that we were in continuous
School Improvement by the state is our
dual credit opportunities that our
seniors participate in and so we'll
hopefully bolster that up with our new
staff lots of apprenticeship
opportunities coming up this year those
still seem to be moving forward so we're
moving forward with that there is a CTE
Grant out there that's up to five
million dollars for each school we will
be getting that application in I forgot
to tell you this today by the way
November 1st week is the second round of
that we have the first deadline was
August 14th and not knowing where we
were going to be with Junior High high
school and stuff like that that timeline
we were happy to get that done by
November 1st we're looking at uh that by
the way that Grant is for Capital
Improvements equipment curriculum we are
going to try to secure funding for a CTE
facility basically if you know what
K-Tech is we're going to try to create a
West Bonner Tech and some of the board
members have had discussions with that
about me in the past as well so we're
going to hopefully get that Grant get
the construction and that building
started and we can start really working
with our community on our apprenticeship
programs and start getting kids uh
graduating high school with journeyman
certificates so that'd be a kind of a
cool addition for us
um I also had a meeting with the
forestry folks and also another CTE
Grant the state's looking at adding
forestry and to the CTE pot and which
means that we can start expanding our
forestry program and start adding that
into that let's see the structure as
well so that that's some awesome things
that's been that was my summer
um so it's been some good stuff fall
sports are underway uh sad news we
didn't have enough older upperclassmen
to full day varsity football program so
we're running a JV program where a whole
had at least one for sure varsity game
Orofino is stuck in the same boat we are
we have by the way one senior zero
Juniors no Juniors at all and the rest
of the kids are freshman sophomores from
a safety standpoint you don't put
freshman sophomores that weigh 100
pounds up against 200 pound kids that's
it and that's been a concern of Mine by
the way for the last two years but we
were able to make it work because this
year it's just there's no way
um our first home competition is boys
soccer this Saturday at home
I don't oh yeah you've been helping out
that's right
um so what time do you remember
two
two o'clock girls are unable to play
because they uh didn't have enough kids
with practices in and playing seven on
11 against the state's best program in
girls soccer is probably not the best
idea
um so yeah and and with the heat and
everything risk of injury and the first
came out we're all boys how many boys do
we have
17 boys out for soccer so I think
they'll be okay
yeah
um and so uh lots and lots of girls
showed up for volleyball uh that number
do you know the exact number coach okay
so
um there were lots of them
yeah we're maybe going to be asking for
a C team coach we'll see how that that
washes out uh that would be awesome and
um
trying to think it's one more thing
um just just as I've been listening to
things throughout the summer I've been a
victim of this um
with some with some things that are said
about me as a principle that were never
said when I
I don't know the numbers for cross
country having a chance to talk to yeah
sorry
um but I know that there's things that
have been said and done around the
community and just remember you know the
Golden Rule do unto others as you have
done to you but also don't forget one of
the Ten Commandments that bear no thou
shall not bear false witness and just
keep that in mind when we publish things
in the paper and listen to emails and
things like that that because
unfortunately I had someone bear false
witness against me so that's not cool
that's not Kosher and uh that's a 10
command so anyway thank you any
questions uh yes
um Mr George when the application is
done for the CTE Pro Capital
Improvements is it possible to see it oh
you guys will you guys will have we'll
see you okay before I get sent in I'll
go through you okay I just want them
everything is board approval okay
especially for that level for so I'd be
really important
through superintendent operations
director
um and yeah because I definitely would
like to see it it's exciting I mean I
think that's really exciting and where's
the local another reason why they
yeah November
um is it the location that's by the old
barn
the location for the CTE is at that near
the old barn are you going to do
thinking of a separate that's a board
and that's above my pay grade decision I
mean so is that being batted or I mean
it has to kind of be batted around into
that application so are we going to see
it is there a work session on it a
little earlier do you think book we need
to get everything together Mr derson I
need to sit down and have conversations
operations director and then we don't
want to give you something that hasn't
been thought through yeah and there is
that Barn over there that's got lots of
stuff in it yeah
yeah so there's some things that have to
happen before that
game but all the all the costs of making
that happen can be included in the grant
so if it means we have to hire someone
to drop an a palm on the barn make you
know
after Fire season yes after Fire season
there may be historic value to that Barn
though
there is historic value to that Barn
address some of the concerns
thank you
[Applause]
hello my name is Peggy lutzenheiser I'm
the new curriculum director
I don't have a lot to can you hear me
no let me bring it closer I'm Peggy
lutzenheiser the new curriculum director
I don't have a lot to report but I will
tell you what my job this year's mostly
on three main jobs
curriculum adopting it purchasing
helping pick it out making sure
everybody has what they need
assessment coordinator which is ISAT iri
PSAT SATs whatever you can think of
assessments and then Susie is going to
train me on
Federal programs
and that is unbelievably how much work
she's been doing and she's going to give
it to me but so
for a while she's going to track me for
this year and next year probably because
there's a lot that goes with it and then
I will go from there right now I'm
actually looking at curriculum adoption
we have a committee that they announced
last time and I will get phone numbers
from Carlin
from and Susan and I will start calling
people and start setting that up
okay all right any questions
[Applause]
yes
thank you
for the record my name is Melissa Riley
can you hear me no okay can you hear me
now okay for the record my name is
Melissa Riley I'm the business manager
for the treasurer report
um good news we received our state
funding so we just received
uh
sorry four million 351
288 dollars
um we're still working with the state as
to how that is to be used we're also
working right now on a budget revision
so I'm working with the department heads
to do more of a Bottoms Up budget style
the state also recommended that we do a
budget revision once we get our actual
attendance figures and we lock down all
of our new hires
um and that's a pretty standard practice
across all of the districts across the
state
I also have the bank balances
so for our main checking account we have
four million 345 thousand dollars
um
in our student body checking account we
have 163 thousand
392 dollars our Aflac checking account
we have 34
675 dollars
um
our insurance buy down account we have
two hundred sixty two thousand eight
hundred and nine dollars and then our
collateralized account we have four
million two hundred sixteen thousand
four hundred and seventy three dollars
um
that is pretty much what I have do you
have any questions
um yes hi Melissa
um would it be possible get those
numbers in writing of those I mean that
you just um listed off and then the
state funding that is equivalent to
about 50 percent of our state funding as
I understand it is that correct that is
my understanding I had about three or
four calls out to them today to try to
lock that down
um
the way that the state funding works is
we give our best estimate of what we're
going to receive and they just kind of
give us what they feel we deserve
again we're working on a kind of a more
robust budget where we're working with
the department heads
um I did get a little bit of feedback
from the state on budget submission
number one
so I'm going to be integrating those
changes as well
um but yeah my best understanding is
this is roughly about 50 percent
um I'm hoping to hear back from them
very soon as to
um
fractionally how that is to be spent
that's what I have and I can definitely
submit that to you okay and then um I
know that after the what is it the 28
weeks there's going to be potentially a
we may see less next time depending on
what things look like I mean there's
there could be an adjustment coming
forth but that's we at least got a good
lump sum so thank you for I'm glad that
we got that that was a tight deadline
the other thing I would love to have
from you that we got before is that
eventually is a Treasures report so that
we have each of those
funds identified and the code number the
fund numbers because
um same with the bill you'll hear me
when I speak about the bills
um invoices are great but I really want
to see that fun number the description
the more details because
um I it just it was very helpful I've
gotten used to over the last few years
understanding looking at those numbers
looking at identifying which school they
go to which you know 200 290 is a food
service
so that kind of overview is still very
helpful in terms of the bills
and then again if we can get those Bank
you know those that probably Treasures
report would identify these numbers that
you just identified in the checking
account I think would as well probably
in that treasure report if that could if
we could get one of those
we're working on getting a more
formalized rep
ENT we can definitely work that to you
anything else no but no okay thank you
thank you
[Applause]
I'm going to be uh
members of the board I'll be really
brief because if I don't
um
Troy me
hit my car
um so just really briefly we as you've
heard from our staff uh things are going
from our building administrators you
know we're really excited about the
staff that we're bringing in for this
this next school year I'm excited to see
some some new faces and appreciate the
return of others as well
um excited about the CTE program we're
going to be trying to to get uh moving
more of the Dual credit program it's
going to be great for our our students I
I can report that we're going to be
working on getting our cares program and
having it become an alternative school
and being able to utilize the annex so
we can get funded for an alternative
school which hasn't been happening I
think that'll be beneficial for our
districts from both a financial
standpoint and from an academic
achievement standpoint to that end you
know I I do think it's important for us
to talk about academic achievement and
try to make that a focal point of these
board meetings you know we're here to
educate kids and I'm really excited
about the um
addition of Peggy to our to our team to
be able to help focus on the assessment
and the curriculum and the instruction
components of our district so that we
can get some some real uh some real work
there and be able to kind of focus on
what will make our students better and
improve our instructions for our
students benefit as well I would just
know and I appreciate the uh Point made
by trustee Barton I just want to assure
the board that I did my I completed my
component of getting the fingerprints
done within two days of being hired I
did what I did I gave it to back to the
staff and when I asked last week
why I hadn't heard back about it Tracy
looked into it and found out that the
state had never received them that
caught me off guard as much as anybody
else because I had already completed
everything that I thought needed to be
completed so
um Tracy then expedited that process and
helped me get those done again and so
hopefully this time it sounds like they
were received this time and will be done
quickly so I just want to make sure the
board is worth it I uh to the extent
that I did what I was supposed to do in
that respect I did so I just finally say
that you know we are uh the district's
going through a lot of changes right now
as we're all aware and our staff at the
central office has been working late
nights almost every single night I don't
think there's a day that we have
the staff leave before 5 30 or 6 o'clock
and that's just a commitment to what's
doing right Tracy Arusha has been a
phenomenal
um person in our HR position she is just
really killing it she's had a lot of uh
applications to receive and just all the
work that comes on with onboarding new
staff she's just done a tremendous job
and it's I want to make sure that we
show her the appreciation because she's
just done like I said just a really
really great job and I'm appreciative of
what she's done for us and um we want to
also finally say that um on August 25th
we're going to be hosting a community
movie night at the high school
immediately after the board meeting is
done
I am paying for everything out of pocket
myself so there's no District funds will
be expended
I am paying for all the concessions and
all the things related to that so we can
have an opportunity for our community to
come together and enjoy some time
together and we'll be taking a donation
for that to support pryc who hopefully
pending board approval here in a few
minutes we'll be able to offer a fifth
day program for our elementary students
in uh down in down down the Priest River
in the Idaho Hill area so we have got
lots of stuff going on we've been making
a lot of progress and I appreciate all
the staff and others who have been able
to help him get us that done
[Applause]
uh question
what are the movies for movie night
yeah
popcorn I mean there will be popcorn and
my wife is bringing up our commercial
grade cotton candy machine so if anyone
wants to help work on the cotton candy
machine it takes like to get as much as
we're going to need you'll probably need
a day in advance to start it because you
can't get it done that fast so anybody
who wants to get gross and sticky and
wants to help with that please let me
know and my wife will Haley's
Haley just volunteered I want the record
to reflect that Haley Scott just
volunteer to be
[Music]
well we we're gonna be we're gonna be
out on the stands at the high school and
I have a 30-foot screen that I just
purchased that's going to be pretty
sweet and
um yeah it'll be pretty cool in the
movie to answer the question is my
favorite movie of all time which is
Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory
the real version with Gene Wilder and I
have my Willy Wonka costume that I
purchased my little guys are going to be
Oompa Loompas and my wife is going to be
Violet Beauregard as a blueberry so uh
we're super excited about that and
hopeful to have a lot of people there so
we can enjoy some time together as a
community
came forth and said
we're going to do a raffle how are we
going to move forward with this again if
the board approves that tonight for this
group with the pre
then so they came forth and so now we
have a huge basket filled with tickets
to The Roxy candy Galore popcorn old
popcorn containers
um cookies sodas all kinds of wonderful
things and then the owners of Roxy gave
us a whole bunch of additional tickets
to use as Raffles as well they were
really supportive in all of this
awesome
okay I need a motion to um uh bring to
the table consent agenda I'll make a
motion to bring the consent agenda to
the table
I have a first do I have a second
okay I have a second from vice vice
chair Brown
discretion
um I do have some questions on the bills
and I know that some of them are in line
with what Miss Nash identified
let me look at the list
I guess I mean one of the questions is I
did also notice that there were quite a
few that were were late and I I not
quite sure
um I guess I'm curious
I'm glad that they're getting hopefully
get paid once we approve them I guess
I'm wondering if there's any you know
just to correct it going forward I
hopefully will correct that issue going
forward and get you know why they might
have been late but more importantly is
not ensuring that we're not in that boat
in the future is one question I've got
and then I do have a couple of specific
ones so I I can speak to that a little
bit and I don't know if kendricken wants
to say anything as our accounts payable
person but um so part of the issue is
that we have the staff is
finding bills that were stashed that
weren't paid and so to the extent that
you look at the bills you'll see several
that were that have been more than a
couple months old and so as we find
bills we add them to the agenda for
approval I think we have got a process
in place right now where we're not
getting behind on anything that's going
forward and that is something that we're
going to be working on to the point you
made prior dressy Hall related to where
what bills are for you know what that's
part of the the bottom-up budgeting
process we're working on so that those
business units whether they be a school
or the Operations Division or whatever
else those those bills going forward
will start to be uh
compartmentalized under their business
unit so that way you'll know we have
these five these
um
these particular bills go to let's say
for example operations and these this is
the current budget we have for
operations and this is how it's going to
be deducted from it so that way there's
much more transparency for not just the
board but for the public as well but
that takes a lot of time to get to that
point and we're you know at this point
we're just trying to pay everything down
that we can
um and make sure that if something is
due that we get it paid for
okay the other question a couple of
questions
um I think I noticed the one for the
travel under food service and then I
looked back at a bill you know kind of
the bills last year because I do a cross
check on those and it looked like maybe
Terry Johnson has an annual conference
that she goes to yeah part of the so
what I my understanding it comes to the
credit cards my understanding is one of
the dilemmas we have is in athletics we
don't have a lot of
um options when it comes to how we pay
for things like travel and so we max out
credit cards to pay for those things
because you know you don't know you're
going to make districts or state until
you've made districts or state and
there's not a lot of time to prepare for
that and that's one of the reasons we
want to have some of those budgeting
practices in place so the money can be
you know pre-approved and ready to roll
so that we don't have to leverage our
credit cards to get those done and
that's that's the goal I do I do know
that Terry does have some conferences
that she goes to in fact she was just
the one at one last week but um but I
think that's I think it's larger the
larger issue is that that oftentimes our
Athletics or co-curricular activities
get in a place where they don't have any
of their options and the fastest way to
get liquidity for funds is through the
credit card and you know we need to stop
that Mr George may have
sure if you if the board allows
for athletics would be to uh to create a
purchase order get that approved
um last year last school year everything
was approved at monthly board meetings
so in order for us to uh for the high
school to secure a hotel room for a
state event that was a week later and
pay for those that
that the process for board approval
would have been too late and the kids
wouldn't be able to go to State and so
that was some of that we also had an
issue with the disc with the credit card
where the credit card was declined and a
coach had to pay for a pocket and get
reimbursed so we so that's so we'd
prefer not to use credit cards as a
practice for for High School uh
but last year that had to become part of
the protocol and we had to use a credit
card to pay for officials because uh the
title was taking too long to get money
posited into the dragonfly
from the keyboard action so
to clarify that one that's for to say
that what was it called
um the hotel down in Boise was that
actually for athletics or was that
actually for food service for that you
know trustee Hall I'm not
I don't have that level of familiarity
with the budget to State
um it would have been
um let me see I'm trying to look at this
bill right now
well it says Foods it says food service
and transportation and it I'm guessing
it was Hotel 43 the date was 6 26. so
that would have been maybe yeah so I
know it's Food Service I'm just double
checking to make sure it was Food
Service not yeah Athletics or whatever
um just making sure that it was what it
was stated
um the other one the big one I think
people have a question on I I have some
more knowledge of it but I would if you
can explain the mckinstry one for 61
000. I mean I know
um I did a little bit more information
on it but I that's probably for you to
share that
so uh you know we have a lot we have
some documentation about that there's
um mckinstry has has done a lot of work
for us around design work for our
buildings and uh our clerk me she's done
some more digging on that she may be
able to provide some more background
yeah okay
okay so the mckenstry charge
for the 61
564 dollars
that was invoiced on 531 2023
I called McKenzie we emailed back and
forth a little bit and
um
because we actually have a balance due
to them of 73
371 dollars
so I reached out to find out the
breakdown on that and a couple things
are for service
um
on boilers and whatnot
but then
there is sorry
the
um eleven thousand dollars that is there
is left over from the um
Elementary School that first uh
whatever it was that 180 or whatever so
there was they had billed for 94 and
then I realized that the last six
percent they hadn't charged us for
and so they sent an invoice for that
and then there is another charge for
well the 61
564. and I am being told by Casey at
McKenzie that
um
he agreed to assist Ken with some rough
order of magnitude pricing analysis for
providing modifications to the middle
school at its current location as well
as constructing a new Middle School at
the High School location
this work was not in our contract but
was completed per Ken's request
so
you're saying there was plan designs
made
create a junior high at the high school
um
yes it looks it looks that way I they
sent me this morning I haven't really
been able to dig through it but they
sent me
um
plan designs
and they did a
they did a cost analysis for
additions and modernizations at the
heist at the junior high
so that was one and then
um that was
their price they put on that was 16
million six hundred eight thousand four
hundred and thirty eight dollars but
then they also
um did a bid for new construction
of the junior high on high school
grounds
for 25 million six hundred thirty six
thousand two hundred and did you say 25
million I did that's for a new
construction that's for new construction
that's new construction
it's not no it's not a bill it is no
they build us the 60
1564 dollars to put together these
difference uh options for the West
Bonner Middle School
Direction
no yeah
is there a signature on there who who
proved to have somebody create plans
that the board never talked about
well the um
the original
was done in 2021 it looks like 10 22
and that was
previous chair Sandra that signed that
one yep
and that that would have um Brandi that
one's for the cafeteria and the that was
for the previous River Elementary School
that that's the original
um it just says addendum one West Bonner
School District it was the
200 and 220 668 there was like an
original 25 000 and then the 195 986.
and I think the 25
000 would have been the feasibility
study that I talked we talked about last
okay and
[Music]
amendments for 61
564 dollars
um
that was signed
sorry one second
on December 14
2022 by Margaret Hall
and then mckinstry signed it on one five
twenty twenty three Warren tasted
so we we would need to go back because I
think it's part of that facilities
discussion okay I think it was must have
been presented back then to because I
would have not assigned it without but I
think it was for the whole package
what they it was just assigned what day
December uh December 14 2022 so it would
have been after a board meeting and a
special I can look online but I think we
went through it and looked at it but we
didn't wasn't
I know you're you're laughing at that
but I I need to go back and look at it
because I I wouldn't have signed it
unless it had been a board approved
unless it was in a meeting I would not
have signed it
but I think it must have been in that
whole package that Ken talked about and
it was a piece of it because I think it
also had to do with
part of that has to do with the security
School entry and security floor plan
upgrades is part of that and I think
there was the facilities committee I
think it was presented to you guys and
then can I or chief I think you came
back and made the presentation for us to
approve a certain package with the Esso
money so that certain the package that
we approved or was the entryway
of the
uh for the the high school a new
entryway the roof
the new roof on the high school and and
something else but I don't remember I
don't remember us talking about
a junior high no and I think that when I
look back through the notes
um what or the emails that um
that Brandy the communications that
Brandy had back and forth the original
was for what you just listed the
entryway the HVAC and the roof right
that was and I think they were adding on
that was the original
package as a sort of courtesy it sounds
like through the emails
they went ahead and added at additional
section and I had nothing to do with
that piece and the only thing I can
think of is it came out of what Jackie
was talking about of looking at the
possibility of moving the Junior High
group to the high school then people
talking about
um building you know having one campus
but if you look at the notes
so I think that first one that I signed
was after the meeting where we approved
the possible things that we were going
to move forward with and the idea that
the Esser money was going to be able to
come in and pay for those improvements
right for the improvements for the
improvements and then the engineering
cost the the mckinstry portion of it was
the engineering cost for the um for the
entryway and then for the roof structure
for the re-roofing that had to do the
engineering analysis before they worked
on the roof
and that was it but I did see
an email in here were Ken
gave them a verbal okay I can't find the
email now that's what I'm looking that's
what I'm looking for in the packet
um it said it wasn't part of the
original scope
But Ken gave them the the approval to go
ahead
uh anyway and I don't think the way I
looked at it it's on looks like
um
it was an email that's if you're looking
at the full packet PDF it would have
been on 404
um actually it would be on page 41 but
it says yes I'll design now I've lost it
um
yes all design documents were per our
contract were completed delivered in the
package presented to the school board on
323 2022
the full contract was not invoiced
initially as we agreed to assist Ken
with some rough order of magnitude price
analysis for providing modifications to
the middle school as its current
location as well as constructing a new
Middle School at the High School
location
this work was not in our contract but
was completed Perkins request after
assisting with this pricing effort our
Focus was shifted to the use of Esser
funds for roofing HVAC control controls
in a secure entry at the high school
okay and that's with this new Focus the
six percent invoice for our previous
effort dropped off the radar hopefully
this information helps so I don't know
if Ken got direction from Jackie because
I know there was a lot of ideas she was
batting around and maybe that was one
thing he she directed Ken to go do when
he directed mckinstry okay so the the um
the holdback was for the completion of
the drawings for the Peace River
Elementary and it sounds like
they threw in
the the design feasibility on on that
the 61 000 is for the engineering on the
roof the HVAC and the Breezeway right
which we did approve and I think if we
went back to the December meeting or
then we I would most likely I would have
signed it the day that um
the date that it was signed probably was
the date of her Cohen coincides with the
meeting December 14
th doubles joke but that and I so I
think the 61 000 was just for what you
identified I don't think they added
anything for that other I'm not seeing
that I don't think I don't think so
either
and that was um I think trying to see if
there's any other bills
um
looking at
those were the only ones that I wanted
clarification on and sort of also have
the public have clarification on
and I apologize Brandy I had started to
email and apparently I didn't hit send
so I have a couple questions
um
it sounds like reading this letter from
um charity that she's been getting us
back some money
um so who you who kudos to her for that
parts that we no longer need or are for
buses that we don't even have
um so that's that's pretty significant
um
then I had a question here
what are all of these suspended charges
and I understand it's prior to you
coming on board all for 5 30 23 and
they're all for the water bill
we had given board direction to the
prior business manager and you guys
correct me where I'm wrong but
for anything that we considered keeping
the lights on and doors open she didn't
need to wait until we actually had a
board meeting because we understood they
fell kind of in between as like what Mr
George was talking about so we gave her
authorization to pay those things
but if I'm understanding this correctly
all the water bills that are attached to
this
were suspended by Shawna on 5 30.
uh yeah Kendra talked to
um the gal at the city so she could
answer more to that but we did also
receive
um you have more red slips notices for
all of the schools that the water will
be shut off tomorrow 35 charges on each
of them
and that was the reason we gave her
carte blanche to do that so that we
wouldn't have this happen again
so Kendra can tell you what she talked
to the city about here
just to clarify that probably why it was
a suspension is when I talked to the
city and said
I know I got to make this payment in the
morning the bill you know we're going to
have approval now I know that that one I
can just pay immediately thank you for
that
they called the city to make sure that
you know I'll be down there with checks
first thing in the morning and was told
that because of our past history with
the city we are on a suspension and I
cannot pay them with one of our checks
out of our account until after November
of this year
previously it has been paid with our
credit cards and unfortunately how we
were talking earlier there's several
different credit cards and they all have
different limits they were having to
make several different payments with
maxing out all these different cards to
make the payments
I don't want to be playing that game
here try this for five bucks kind of a
deal so I asked her if I could go to the
bank and grab a cashier's check that
they would accept that so they will so I
can go through the normal process of the
POS and the paying it and then produce
the check that I will take to the bank
turn it in for a cashier's check and
have that paid first thing in the
morning so going forward until November
that's how we will do it we'll pay him
immediately once we receive the bills
with by going to the bank
receiving a cashier's check and taking
that to the city and starting in
December then we can pay normally
wow and I guess I've got one follow-up
question for you who's this have we
cleared up the signatures the signatures
on the check so we now have two
signatures on the checks and they are
who are they now for sure I just for
clarification just so we recap at the
moment
and Brandon okay
so it should be eventually it will be
the treasurer right it usually is the
chair and the treasurer and that's one
of the things we've been working with
Sarah who is in charge of large business
accounts all week with back and forth
paperwork
okay so that hopefully will be cleared
up in the next couple of weeks that
clarification okay
and
um okay so thank you thank you and then
I'm sorry I had another one on life map
um I'm assuming this is our third party
vendor for all the ancillary benefits
sorry insurance company life insurance
company okay
um so we have a lot of the names on here
that are no longer
staff members so I'm assuming that
that'll get rectified down the road and
then we'll get payment back for those
yeah Tracy's going through that list
right now okay she's working with the um
with the department heads and with the
building administrators to identify
staff that are no longer with them and
removing them from the list and that
goes the same thing's true for what our
work with Taylor's as well for our
health insurance program
so I would caution it sounds like those
names I'm looking on the information
that I've received and if they're
um
if there are people's names and it's
related to any kind of I don't know I be
careful I would make sure that we're not
divulging privacy issues on that and I
would caution uh Vice chair Brown not to
share those very widely if they've got
people's names on them
oh yeah okay so I just want to make sure
okay I guess so then just for
clarification
and the board can all speak in we did
give full authorization for any bills
that are for keeping the lights on
keeping the water going the trash picked
up
what else am I think
I think propane stuff that that are
vital
you don't need to wait for a board
meeting you do need to present to us but
you just need to pay them please
don't like the red tickets
and it might behoove because I think
there is there's concern of
um
it might make sense for the next time
for a list of potential you know a list
brought before the board of potential
entities that are you know we instead of
just speaking them out have a list of
saying who would be the vital ones to
pay and we approve it as a board because
it I think part of the reason is that
what we might consider is vital someone
else might not consider it as vital so I
think it might be who having that list
of vendors who we think are vital so
that we approve that that can those can
be paid up front I think it's the gray
area that makes it um wishy-washy for
everyone and a little risky yeah I did
have one last question
why are we paying for a subscription to
a free magazine
it's because we use um we also have
decided under you're talking about
Beacon
um we have used it there was that
conversation about the record
um a location for putting in
um
the beacon cannot be art our newspaper
of record but we recognize because of
the subscription but we did recognize
during our annual meeting that the
beacon was a locate everyone was reading
it and our meetings notices go in there
so that people are aware of our meeting
notices and I think that's Mr nurse that
maybe is that your understanding but
that was my understanding we had that
discussion a while ago and we I think if
we look at our annual meeting notes we
might we may have done the same thing we
did it the year before I think we did
not change it this last time and that's
why we had continued using this and that
could be I think that just if you look
at the statutory requirement around
posting of things in the newspaper of
record there's some conditions around
circulation for that and so
although I can't speak specifically to
this particular bill but um
but certainly whatever the bill thinks
is appropriate we should
we'll go with
I mean I think they think the thought is
that people do read the beacon it's free
and that is a way to get our information
out on I kind of thought the discussion
was that we our hands are tied we have
to take the bone or B no matter how much
they suck yeah yeah but
we did acknowledge that uh
we did acknowledge that the beacon did
so I think we did authorize we did okay
yeah I just didn't remember yeah
okay do I have a motion to accept this
consent agenda I'll make a motion to
accept the consent agenda
do I have a second I second that I have
a second from Vice chair Brown all those
in favor of accepting the consent agenda
please say aye aye aye the consent
agenda is passed
okay
new business
I need a motion for consideration and
approval for request for bids for mental
health services
I'll make a motion to approve but I
guess I would say bring to the table
consideration approval for request for
bids for Mental Health Service because I
haven't seen it okay so I'll second that
okay I have a first and a second to
bring to the table for consideration and
approval for requests for bids for
mental health services discussion
Mr chairman just a kind of brief the
board
um
so
we heard I've heard in my town halls
specifically the town hall I had down at
Idaho Hill a lot of concerns from
community members around having access
to mental health care for our elementary
students in particular and while we
think we're very close to being able to
have a Elementary counselor
that isn't a certainty and so just to
give the district a little bit of of an
alternative
if that position doesn't get filled then
what what we're asking for is the
authority to go out for bid to be able
to hire someone on a contractual basis
to provide mental health services to our
school district to supplement that which
would be lacking from the elementary
school not having a counselor so that's
the that's the strategy there just want
to make sure and it would be Our
intention that if if that position is
filled that we would remove the the
crest forbid and then we would just we
wouldn't go any further with that
okay okay so um
I don't have any more questions okay
I'll make a motion to
um
approve going out for a request for bids
for mental health services
okay I have a first for approval for a
request for bids for mental health
services do I have a second I'll second
that okay
I have a second from Vice chair Brent
all those in favor of approval for
requests for bids for mental health
services please say aye aye aye those
opposed okay the motion carries
I need a motion to bring to the table
for consideration and approval of
administrative salary schedule
uh
um I'll make a motion to bring to the
table the consideration approval of the
salary schedule administrative salary
schedule correction
I'll second that
consideration approval of administrative
salary schedule debate
um I guess I would like to know the the
dollar amount if if
we go with option two the 1200 flat
increase which is what has been in the
last couple of years
what are we looking at in terms of total
dollar amount in general Percy it'd be
uh well
it would be 4 800 times points
three two or one times 1.32 would be the
total because you've got four
administrators who this would be
applying to because it wouldn't apply to
me
um no five sorry it'd be six thousand
times 1.32
although no no no sorry I don't want to
make confused everybody I'm sorry I
remember why I only said four because
the special education director this
doesn't apply to because she's remote
and you'll notice that that didn't see
we've differentiated between the local
and the remote on that
um piece and so she wouldn't see a raise
from this uh so she would remain the
same and where she's currently at so
it'd be the 4800 times 1.32 roughly
would be the total impact okay
once you get to that times four times
twelve hundred times that number that's
how the math works
so I can't download anything on my Mac
on my phone so I can tell you
I don't have a calculator on here so it
looks like it's about roughly sixty four
hundred dollars that's what I'm coming
up to roughly without if I just did one
point somewhere in there yeah okay
um and I know that this was originally I
am I'm going to propose option to the
1200 flat increase because we have not
finished negotiations and I do not want
to I know that the 1200 was kind of
factored into the original budget
um proposed budget after the levy didn't
pass
um I'm I mean everybody's working really
hard but I also want to cut you know I I
don't
I just need we need to finish
negotiations with a certified staff so
I'm trying to be conservative on that
increase but recognizing that maybe if
we go out for a levy next year we can
adjust that but right now that would be
my
um motion is to approve the salary
schedule with the 1200 flat increase at
this point in time
I have a motion do I have a second
okay
that's option one let's do option two
yeah and that ends up being slightly
higher than 2.5 versus the 1200.
and here's to see it better thank you
so there's the form of the 2500.
and this would I mean I recognize this
is
um you know not going to address the
cost of living increase very at all but
at least it I want to recognize the hard
work that the administrators have done
an administrative team has done and
undertaken over the last
um year
and I just want to point out to the for
the boards um
to help the board you'll notice that
we've differentiated between different
positions before there was some
truncation yeah we've we've separated
those out to provide more clarity so
that way it was easier for potential
applicants as well as the public to know
who was getting paid how much depending
upon what position we had so if we have
a change in Staffing later
that way it's it's pretty clear
so what does this affect if we wait what
does this affect if we wait until
negotiations are done completed so
there's no impact because the uh
the administrators aren't a part of the
bargain unit so they their contracts are
separate from those and it seems to me
this is I'm not caught up in this
necessarily
we should our our administrators have
been working the last three days on
contract without a contract so to the
extent that they're not tied to what
happens with negotiations I think it
would it makes sense to get them their
salary scheduled approved so that Tracy
can get the contracts printed up if they
get them signed
um as quickly as we can okay
okay yeah
so
if there are no more questions I'll make
a motion for official motion
okay there's a motion on the floor
there's just you need a second okay I
have a motion on the floor to accept
option two do I have
I'll second that
trustee Barton
all those in favor of of approving
administrators salary schedule option
two please say aye aye
okay the salary schedule is adopted
um I need a motion to bring to the table
consideration and approval of longevity
stipend plan
I'll make a motion to bring to the table
of consideration approval of the
longevity stipend plan
okay I have a second from uh Vice chair
Brown
foreign
debate
um this is and Mr Durst can go ahead
this is basically what we have before
um the only caveat I would say is that I
know negotiations isn't completely done
but as we've talked through negotiations
this seemed to be
you know maintaining the same longevity
stipend has been acceptable so I would
make a motion to approve it the one
difference again the negotiations
agreement Will trump
are policies that has priority
but this one is looking at the longevity
stipends broken into quarters I think it
was which does make sense
um okay so I think
so the motion on the floor is to accept
the longevity stipend
as written pending salary negotiation is
that correct
um I would approve it as is and if we
have to amend it we do so after
negotiations I would I would go ahead
and approve it as is and if it has to so
that it's settled but if we have to come
back an amendment we do so okay the
motion on the floors except the
longevity stipend as is
do I have a second
I'll second that
the second from trustee Barton
aye
opposed okay the longevity stipend is
adopted
I need a motion for consideration and
approval of pric use of tre for Friday
student care
um I'll make a motion for the facilities
consideration approval of the pryc use
of pre for Friday student care and I
wondered
um thanks if Brandi could open the
document up
I second that
yeah
student care debate
Mr chairman or I would ask um Liz
Holbrook and possibly if she wants Lynn
Parker to the extent she wants to
provide input from the school's
perspective on what this is and what the
object what's what the objective is and
kind of provide some context so the
board can make a more informed decision
yeah there's no there's nothing there
can you guys hear me okay
hi I'm Michelle Larson uh this is Liz
Holbrook obviously
um we are here on behalf of Priest River
Youth connections a local organization
dedicated to supporting the Youth of
West Bonner County our mission is to
help our students reach their goals and
enhance their well-being through
scholarships music activities and
programs we are excited to introduce our
fifth day program which aims to provide
a safe and engaging environment for
children on Fridays this program will
offer activities such as Music Arts
Sports and More contributing to the
mental creative physical and Social
Development of the students to
successfully run this program we are
here to kindly request the permission to
use the facilities at Priest River
Elementary we've chosen pre due to its
reputation and suitability to our
program's needs the facilities would be
great would greatly contribute to the
success of our initiative and benefit
the community
in addition we are seeking volunteers to
help facilitate this program without
Community Support we will be unable to
launch and we believe that involving
dedicated individuals from the community
will create a nurturing and inspiring
environment for our children
we also wanted to share that we have
recently received our tax exemption
status and we as we work towards
securing funding our goal is to provide
paid positions for anyone interested
including classified staff we aim to
create sustainable employment
opportunities within our community while
fulfilling our mission thank you for
considering our request and we
appreciate your commitment to the
well-being of Our Youth of the community
and we look forward to opportunities to
collaborate and move forward and
positive for the kids that we serve
okay so
um there's probably concern about how
it's going to impact impact pre and our
programs that we're using on campus and
so
um we have two classrooms that aren't
being used right now which could be used
for this program so it would have no
impact on any teachers in their
classrooms which is important
and we have our gymnasium which is
amazing and then we also have a computer
lab one computer lab is Peggy's office
so we cannot use that but we can use our
other computer lab and that would be
good technology and things for our
students that are involved in that
program to be used I um when we started
talking about four day
um and as an elementary school principal
and knowing students have no place to go
on Fridays and parents it really needed
my initial Instinct was to apply for
Grants and to do some things but then
um at that time Jackie told me that Liz
had already been thinking about that and
so that I didn't need to I was thinking
21st century Grant an after-school Grant
something that we could do to implement
at our school so we could support our
students because that's so important to
me so this way we can have a joint
effort to meet those needs of our
students and our community
so question
um in a sense really great and Liz I
know you've worked really hard on this
what about I guess the use of the food I
mean are these kids going to is there
going to be
does the cafeteria need to be used as
well
because we don't know what our funds are
going to be we're just going to have the
parents offer or bring sack lunches and
then we're hoping to get donations for
snacks twice a day
so and then the one of the classrooms
Lynn was talking and Brandon about
possibly just getting a refrigerator
donated and leaving it in that classroom
so we have a cafeteria set up in there
and just in terms of I know our
maintenance staff is still somewhat
tight so are we able it will that be
hoping
for part of the program as of right now
I promise that I would be donating my
time for a couple of months until the
program gives off the ground
okay
all right and then do you have a sense
how many kids at this point how many
kids is that what you said well go ahead
yeah okay so um I just so you know a
little background it's one of the things
I did to get my Master's in
administration was I created an after
school program at the district that I
was in that there was not one and so um
a hundred students at first and actually
Liz and I talked about it and is there a
need we're going to do a questionnaire
and see is there a need for it and then
and then that would be that would be the
decision maker on what we do
and I would share too just for the board
certification
um we did have a meeting about this
earlier this week and I included officer
Davis in that conversation as well and I
previously spoke with the chief and
their their willing and able to do some
drive-bys and stops in and just kind of
check in with the kids on it throughout
the day on Friday so that way parents
have some assurance that they're safe
that their kids are going to be safe in
that environment and also that we keep
that taken care of so and age limit is
basically a what age limit
okay and I'm not ready to volunteer time
yet but
I'll keep an eye because we also have to
see what we might want to do up here at
Priest Lake so that would be where I
because we're
it's closer as I always say it's closer
to Sandpoint from Priest River than it
is to basically up here so we need to
see what we need to have that
conversation for up here
um and see how we you know what the
public I was hoping to have you know
maybe help sort of listen to or be part
of a meeting up here before but
negotiations and has taken a bunch of
time so hopefully we can do that once we
get started
this one off the ground would be helpful
for the one
yeah and there may be things like
somebody mentioned we've got the
experimental Forest we've got some other
things there's the
4-H program connected with the
Cooperative Extension you know there may
be things that we can dovetail on it's
just again what do the what's the
community what I want to hear is what
does the community want to do up here
and that's what I need to know
is trying to be the spearhead for that
and so Michelle Barnes went Rachel Davis
went and Casey Nelson and myself and so
we have some great ideas and things to
share for stem at pre
and that would that would be great I
mean I hopefully we can you know the
communities can work together it's not
that don't want to bust people down
there but it's a long way so just and it
may not be a huge group so it may be you
know just need to figure out what people
want to do up here
I'll make a motion to approve unless
the pryc use of pre for Friday student
care do I have a second I'll second that
I
and thank you for all the work you put
together
[Applause]
next I need a motion to bring to the
floor consideration and approval of
change to 2023 2024
. you jumped oh I'm sorry you jumped one
yes
objective
I make a motion I'll make a motion to
bring to the table consideration
approval of facility use agreement for p
r y s I'll second that
I have ocean to
I'll second that
Mr chairman
just uh just as a
point of consideration for the board
we've obviously support the approval of
all these from the staff side but we'd
like them to be conditioned upon the
that they be conditioned upon the
completion of the facilities use plan
which we're going to try to get pushed
out pretty fast but that way they're
they're
underneath that new plan that's going to
be developed that would be the only
request that if to the extent the board
is supportive of doing that the motion
would would speak to that than to be a
part of the plan that's being developed
yes thank you for that clarification
um and that that will go with the um
the the
pryc use and PR of pre
for Friday student care as well
okay
um just to clarify
um
I guess what are you that would be the
the fee structure and all of that and
yeah so one of the things that the
administrators mentioned to me that they
want to make sure is included is there
some sort of and Peggy was the one that
brought this one up was to say hey we
need to make sure we have some sort of
cleaning deposit in place because
sometimes the facilities aren't left in
the best condition I think what we'd
like to do is have any kind of one of
the other things we're looking at doing
is making sure that if there's any fees
that are collected that those
um for the use of the buildings that
those we'd like to have them retained
with the building they were used for so
they kind of work as a fundraiser for
that specific school so they can put it
back into their programs but the idea
just being that if we have those
once that's approved then that that will
that will govern those use agreements
going forward
okay so I guess clarification on the one
that's before us right now the pr the
Priest River Youth
Sports
um
they don't seem to start until September
5th
but can we go conditionally approve them
that we can move them forward and then
once um
yeah because this one's Outdoors that's
for sure
it's just for the fields we're not even
in the school we support or we bring our
own porta potties we do everything
so I don't see why there would have to
be a change in that
since we're not using technically the
building
just the fields no yeah that's that's I
know I'm just saying putting this out
there that we're this one's just for the
field so correct we shouldn't have to be
charged to use the facility if we're not
going in the building
that that handled with
with agreement I know it'll be a
different
they'll be
I understand you're going to be outside
right okay but that's
that facilities the only thing the
facilities use agreement is because this
is not uncommon for school districts to
have something like that I get that I
was just stating could it be something
different since we're not going to be
inside of the fields yeah and I would
just just tell you the concerns
technology what I'm saying yeah just and
just to let your concerns I think it's
not our goal to try to um
we just want to make sure that we have
the things in place so that's
predictable so that way we treat all
potential users equally depending upon
their use and so I know there is a
desire that if we talked about like we
talked about in our meeting at admin
meeting today if they're benefiting our
students you know our youth that's
different than if it's an adult group
that's trying to utilize our facilities
and so I think that we just want to make
sure we have those laned out so that way
it's clear right as to what we're trying
to do so I I understand what you're
saying but we just it's just with
and we're going to differentiate between
outside use only and inside use only and
yeah that was my only concern absolutely
and I guess what I'm wanting to do is
because I'm looking at these different
use agreements that we have and we want
to make sure that we're consistent
I see this you know this one may be
starting on September 5th October it's
going through October 7th but a couple
of the others are starting immediately
so I would I guess in terms of approving
I would
don't want to hold things up because
there's cheer practice and things like
that
um
I think it would be that then these
would be these use agreements would be
updated once we got the new one in
that's that makes sense yes
so
okay
okay all right
so I I would make a motion to approve
the facility use agreement for the prys
sort of conditionally or
um with the with the note that this will
be updated once we get the actual
updated facility use planning plan in
place I have a motion to accept do I
have do I have a second
I'll second that okay I have a second
trustee Barton all those in favor of the
consideration and approval of facilities
use agreement for perys please say aye
aye
was it posed okay the motion carries
um I'll bring to the table I'll make a
motion to bring to the table
consideration approval of change to
2023-2024 school year calendar okay
okay I'll second that okay I have a
second from trustee Barton
debate
Mr chairman just as a bit of background
because I'm sure this is going to be uh
this is this would be a minor change and
it would be related to Winter Break
um
the the issue we have is that
we've got concern from some classified
staff
um
that our current because our classified
staff is not on a four day work week
it's up there on a five-day work week we
don't currently leave for winter break
until the 22nd of December and if
anyone's trying to get anywhere else for
Christmas
that's they're going to be that's going
to make doing that very very difficult
the flights are going to be very
expensive it's going to make hard for
travel and it's also going to be hard
for families that celebrate Christmas to
be able to do so with any degree of
festivity because they're going to be in
school the whole time and I have a lot
of concern throughout Ada when it comes
to being that close to Christmas before
we have our break I do understand that
no matter what we do there's going to be
an ADA impact but
uh we had we'd had some concerns from
classified staff in particular about
that and so what we're asking to do is
just shift that that week from after
thanks after New Year's to shift it to
the week before so that way they're off
the week prior to Christmas the entire
week prior to Christmas and then they
get the full time to do those activities
and then they'd come back to school on
January 2nd
so just for clarification though this
has been already approved and in place
for the last six months probably
Mr Mr chairman and trustee Barton my
understanding having spoke to Mr George
is that the
DLT did not approve the calendar change
it was the the calendar committee made a
decision but they did not go through the
traditional protocol to get finally
approved and I think that's that's the
that's I think that's part of the
concern is that folks who may have
otherwise had input on that process may
have push for something different to the
extent the board doesn't want to do
anything that's fine with me but I just
I do think they would behoove us I think
it would be beneficial especially to our
classified staff if we were to augment
this in this way to be able to give
people more time to be able to celebrate
you know the main reason we even have
this break in the first place
you're saying
I mean
correct
yep
yeah that's good thank you Katie
yeah so I'm looking at where there is a
calendar is in the um
Priest River lamada High handbook that
we have and so I'm trying to look at
that and see
so
um right now 18th through the 21st is
orange which means those are student
days
and then it looks like they're off
um the second through the fourth
so you're saying to shift that so
they're off the 20 oops let me see 18th
through the 21st and they're back in
place by the second yeah okay and the
idea like again again going just back to
the idea that it gives people more time
to celebrate
the holiday before the holiday happens
because otherwise you're basically right
on top of it when you get out of school
which the hard thing is that we have
Christmas on a Monday this year that's
that's really what's making this
difficult
we have extra days built in our calendar
already
no we wouldn't need to
but wasn't there a committee that was
already in place that actually
made this calendar and voted on by the
entire staff
no yes please
proper protocols for calendar was not
we're not actually followed properly
last year the calendar was presented to
you guys without it going through delt
for the district instructional
leadership team uh the superintendent
just gave it to you
um so what would typically would have
happened is a survey went out to the
entire staff certified and classified on
a 30-minute Edition 45 minute Edition
and 60 Minute addition to the school day
and then when that data came back to us
the calendar committee put together a
draft calendar on the 60 Minute there
were still questions normally that would
have been vetted through the district
instructional leadership team and they
would have brought up issues like this
and had that discussion if that wasn't
done it was just presented to the board
and at that meeting I was asked who was
on the committee and which is why I
bought because it should have been
District instruction leadership team not
the calendar committee so the calendar
committee is a commit within District
instructional leadership team not a
entity that stands out by itself
um
that's kind of so you could argue it
didn't get properly vetted in that
regard a couple concerns that I
expressed to Mr Durst as well with
change in days one of them is our old
negotiating agreement requires a day off
for staff after a holiday so that could
make potentially whatever a negotiated
agreement comes out to be it could end
up being a two-day school week after
school and the or the calendar committee
was to try to avoid three-day Peaks
understanding that there were I think
two already existing
coming on Mr jurors we discussed those
uh they were the holidays after Martin
Luther King day and after President's
Day President's Day yeah
yeah
and the calendar committee has reached
out to me throughout the last couple of
days and wanted me to express those
concerns as well so
um my only you know I think this needs a
in the future we need to also better
with the parents but my one concern and
I think we're going to have to watch
closely
is basically we've got Thanksgiving in
that week off the high school students
are supposed to go that week then we've
got basically three more weeks and then
they're off for two weeks call me
old-fashioned but um
I we we we're going to need to see the
learning loss in that and see how that
is because that's a lot of time off and
there's a lot of sort of here's here
you're at school here you go a couple of
here you go for a couple of weeks then
you're off again I think there's going
to be I think we're going to see some
learning loss there
all right
well and I'd also like to point out that
both Newport and Timberlake are taking
those same two weeks off so I don't know
how that would impact
um
how that would adversely impact our
district
if we didn't take those two weeks off
that we already have in the calendar it
looks to me like protocol would be
to stick with the calendar that we have
other districts are doing it and that
and it's been approved
I don't know if we should change it the
week before we start school or two weeks
before we start school
any other debate
and I apologize when I watch it's okay I
need to put drops in my eyes so I missed
the first part of this so this is
something that you and the calendar
board have discussed and now this is we
they I've just shared their concerns
with you
um and uh one of the other what would
normally happen and I forgot to mention
this part as well is through dealt then
the district's instructional leadership
team would then direct the calendar
committee to send options out to the
staff
based on different different vacation
days going to the four day week A lot of
people are confused because we sent out
options but again those were the 60 the
30 and the 45 minute additions to the
day then we should have come back sent
out options on the 60 Minute calendar
and that just that didn't happen
so that was instead just the the draft
calendar got presented to the board not
a finished calendar and so this is what
we're looking at now this is kind of the
consensus of all the different
conversations you've had with everybody
that this is the best one we came up
with this new one
that was the consensus of the calendar
committee and then the admin team met
um about it and then it was presented to
the board the next I think the next
Wednesday so without any input from
staff so
and I I guess and I you know I wish we
had time to also re you know get some
feedback I understand it's important to
get feedback from the staff but I see
this for you know potentially for
um and I I don't know without you know
one of the things that I see by shifting
it the way we're going to shift it and
start the Tuesday after the first
is you know people up here again are
some of the families may be working for
the resorts and um working you know
headstrong up through before the the
resort
before the holidays and then hoping for
that couple of days after the first when
you know after people have kind of left
up here to have some time with their
family so you have to think of the
economy up here is a little different
than the economy down in Priest River
and so there's some things there that um
you know that I'm looking at and I again
that's I don't know if that's true for
the community up here but that would be
my consideration that's always been my
consideration in terms of these
calendars is
trying to get a little bit more input
from people to before we made those
changes
and not just staff but the parents and
how it affects them
Mr George
uh clarification you the calendar the
existing calendar now that that we're
looking at uh without the modifications
that is what you that is what you guys
approved okay
yes is that
what you guys want is that is that the
one you wanted that's what came out of
the calendar committee and the admin
meeting okay it just didn't it just
didn't do that one one normal step okay
thank you
okay so that's more moving up please
yeah but that's okay
okay do I have a motion
Sandpoint has the same schedule also
which one that which when you say same
schedule can you clarify
okay so they just clarification they get
off on the 21st and come back on the um
eighth yes okay okay
so what is the motion on the floor
I'll make a motion to maintain and keep
the schedule that was approved by the
board this spring and
okay I have a motion to keep the current
schedule I will second I will second
that because I would like to do a deeper
dive and make sure we you know just
because we have it on there I have a
second from trustee Hall all those in
favor of keeping the schedule as is
please say aye
aye those opposed okay the schedule
stays as is and I guess I would say is
that you know hopefully we can do it the
process right next time and do field
everybody
the table consideration and approval of
facilities use agreement for Priest
River Junior Tackle
tabs together
um chair Rutledge could we
um
put those together
so we put GH and
I all in the same
motion just to save on time it looks to
me like they're all the same
would you like to thank you hi I'm Angie
um yes cheer and pre-server Junior wait
a second okay I'll second that motion
that she made to um combine those three
okay
most Junior Tackle cheers and youth
baseball okay do I have a second and
I'll second okay all those in favor of
considering those as a block please say
aye aye
thank you okay
um so there was a little typo that's
Junior Tackle but yes we're the same the
same Club so we have the same insurance
and everything
um we I just want to give you some
background on this we've been using the
facilities for four plus years now that
we've been a club we have 60 football
players that are third grade to sixth
grade we also have 40 cheerleaders
so we have a huge huge group and they're
phenomenal they the cheerleaders go to
competitions throughout Lakeland
Lewiston they travel all over they're
tiny and they're amazing they were I
think they were at the timber Days
parade we also have
in that we buy a lot of equipment and we
let the schools use that equipment we
have a sled that the junior high uses we
bought new pads for the high school sled
so we don't need a lot of money back to
our schools
um for they go you know there are up and
coming little guys so they go through
the program into the school
um what else
any questions
I guess
you're all the same group so you're not
competing with each other on the fields
and I just want to make sure we have no
competition on those fields in any other
way no and like
and lighters and the principles and
stuff and the clubs they do a good job
of if they do have a conflict with the
schools the schools come in and let them
know ahead of time hey we need the field
at 5 30 we're gonna have to bump you so
they'll bump back an hour or whatever
they need to do so
so I'll make a motion to approve the
facilities use agreement for the Priest
River Junior High tackle the Priest
River Junior High cheer and the Spokane
Indians Youth Baseball I second that
I have a first and second all those in
favor of
actually let's make an amendment before
we do that because it's not the priest
River Junior High
oh it's just it's Junior Priest River
Junior Tackle appreciate over cheer
oh okay um
this Spokane Indians Youth Baseball okay
I have a first and a second you know
I'll second the amendment
all those in favor
of accepting uh facilities agreement for
a Priest River Junior Tackle
Priest River Junior
and it's just Junior cheer Junior I'm
sorry Junior cheer and Spokane Indians
youth baseball please say hi hi
next uh
I need a person to bring to the table uh
District virtual learning plan
discussion I'll make a motion to bring
to the table of the district virtual
learning plan discussion
okay do I have a second thought okay the
second from trustee Barton first from
trustee Hall uh discussion
um I think this was mine and I I
apologize I didn't see that on there
um
I had just looked at a bunch of
different programs
um that would offer virtual learning
pieces to students
um and it just it was intriguing I
thought for kids especially if they have
some sort of special needs it gave them
a different avenue to be able to look at
these things
several of them included a wide variety
of subjects Math Science History so it
wasn't like it was just a game I mean
they were actually learning skills and
programs
and so
I apologize I did not see that on there
and I will provide you with the details
for next meeting
yes please I'd like to make a motion to
table it um
I'm supposed to I don't know if there's
a Time certain or um
the next meeting okay next meeting okay
okay
table
next they need a motion for
consideration and approval of student
handbook for West Broward County school
district schools we'll make a motion to
bring to the table of consideration
approval of student handbooks for West
Bonner County Schools
a second then
discussion
um I think there's some consideration
things that were brought forth if we go
down through start with the Priest River
Lamona high school student handbook
there were some concerns about the
graduation requirements being in
alignment with the policy yeah
sorry no sorry I just so we could see
them
um well I wanted to start with uh this
totally revamped that's I completely
redid it so it looks completely
different hopefully you got it early
enough to look through it I did I
mentioned emails from staff saying hey
you've mistyped this Mr George you have
this typo and and so on um
Mission Visions Mission vision statement
is uh is is re reworded and revised
just a couple highlights here prihs
mission statement enable all students to
develop their individual potential by
acquiring the knowledge skills and
values needed to become lifelong
responsible active and productive
members of the community
mission of vision statement needs to be
approved by the board so I want to make
sure you've heard that vision statement
prlhs is one of our community's most
important Investments by building better
Spartans we are providing generations of
Future Leaders with the skills and
mindset necessary to lead our community
excellence in all we do and you know us
on the front page I have excellence in
all we do I have no problem or beef with
strive for greatness but I felt like the
high school needed to have kind of its
own little slogan as well
um
address some other issues dress code
we're directed to look at dress code
with the parent committee last spring
that is on page 10. Randy able to keep
up with me
okay so page 10
uh there was a typo that Mr ball thank
you for listening Pete uh pointed out to
me in the in the dress code
um I divided up my lower body upper body
undergarments and then all clothing uh
the issue that Mr ball pointed out to me
is that was confusing so the wording has
been changed for short shorts Kilts get
that shorts skirts Kilts and dresses
must not be more than two inches above
the knee this should be below the
fingertips and standing at rest
um okay what I use for guidelines after
talking to the parent committee was
basically business casual and you can
look up online you can Google business
casual for women business casual for men
and you've got pictures guidelines and
all that stuff to make it very very easy
for parents and students to follow
any questions about dress code
um not the dress code but just really
quickly
um I wanted you to skipped over
something really quickly on page
on page eight open
campus um close campus at lunch I mean
there were some issues there I also
wanted to know I mean I think
kitty lsser talked about this one for
for younger students you know for
freshmen who might actually be excelling
but also I wondered because we increased
that to 2.5 cumulative GPA I'm wondering
how that worked
it worked very well I had kids at that
semester coming up to me and say hey Mr
George my GPS
cumulative GPA not their not their
quarter GPS so it's cumulative GPA hey
Mr George I got my GPA up and I was like
sweet I'll go get you a card printed and
so they go make laminate I laminate the
cards for them I hand write their names
on it ahead of time
and so that worked really well the
rationale before for students not being
in the parking lot loitering in the
parking lot is there is no vice
principal no dean of students at the
high school next year so I am on my own
sometimes officer Davis is there most
days but there's no way actually even
when even with him
assistant and myself you have to be
outside inside and hallways monitored
line of sight without light is a rule of
thumb with admin and if you don't have
wine
ability which specific to liability I
don't know how I have line of sight of
what kids are doing in cars
I don't have I don't have a way to
um
without sitting in every car and walking
and looking at every car's window as to
what kids are doing we had kids doing
things in vehicles last year that I
weren't sure they should have been doing
I had reports I had no way to confirm or
deny and so for the safety of our
students I feel it's a lawyer in the
parking lot should not be allowed by the
way every other school that I've looked
at that has campus has not allowed
students to stay in parking lot
s
maybe something to think about maybe
working with the students is to figure
out if there's a spot that can address
that privacy issue that was being you
know why and there are points are good
when the Privacy the Privacy issue
there are some spaces they can be but
with two lunches next year that makes it
a little more difficult whereas the
hallways won't be open
but I do have concerns with how am I
going to monitor by myself next year 300
well it would be 150 students at a time
at lunch so and the parking lot adds one
more place to do that
I get I honestly my first year pretty
sure lamanna High School I I'd never
seen a school that I'd ever worked at at
a high school where kids were in the
parking lot at lunch and
mind and Mr Ken and I
because they just couldn't figure out
why kids were in the parking lot of
lunch that just was it's a pretty sure
everything to get it but it's really not
a safe thing to do
so
Mr George it says there in parentheses
that freshmen's are not eligible for
open campus and I I really liked your
comment because if if we have a student
in freshman class that is excelling and
you know
I'm not sure I mean
okay
what my question was that it was a
change two years ago right before school
started to require the GP which is fine
but so right now if you if you're a
freshman and you have a 4. whatever
you're above a 245
a quarter
human GPA
this semester
so I thought I took that language did I
did I keep that language in
there oh
okay
oh we don't even do quarters I need to
edit that our gpas are figured by
semester
um I'm actually I meant to change that
to uh so once they entered their
sophomore year they could be eligible
that that's what I meant to change it
too no problem so on page 16
um that after a grade point average a
2.5 must be met before 10th graders will
be allowed to leave campus and then that
sentence was end at that point
yep
yes ma'am yes ma'am yeah that was my
intention
so we can't eat it's probably too early
to eat the GPA up to 2.75
.
you know how I Like to Move It Up
well and I'm saying
um there are some things there that I
would offer to do your final formatting
if you would accept it when you're done
seven five I'll be honest though we have
a lot of kids who are really really
great kids they're responsible kids and
they they really work their butts off to
get that that capacity and that would be
no I would be I would be negligent in my
duties if I did not voucher
so so leave it at 2.5
okay at least for this year
we're
a new staff I have a feeling that we're
going to get the Pas up anyway yeah
but we moved it from two to two point
five so that's that's just that's a
start that's that's good
um there is another edit on page
nine the cell phone policy
I don't know if you guys read through
that already or not
um I sort of did
we've adjusted the consequences
um this was out of that parent meeting I
just want to make sure you saw that some
things are those parent meetings came to
came to fruition
um so first offense for a phone in class
is going to be confiscated like it
always was kept by the teacher returned
at the end of the period second offense
is going to be turned The Office return
to the end of the day the parent will be
notified that's a little bit of a change
third offense phone privileges revoked
for one week
and the the student will be required to
turn at the office every day parent will
be notified fourth offense it's a
revoked for remainder of the year
but turn the phone in for the remainder
of the year they get it back at the end
of the day
every time because I know why kids drive
home without their phones
and then again parents will notify the
abstract account just turn it in every
day when they walk in which creates kind
of a nightmare of regulating a kid has
to turn their phone in I get that but um
the parent the parent advisory committee
and Mrs Williams we've talked about this
felt like that was about we were willing
to fight
and we have a plan for when parents call
and want to know about our plan in the
office about how we keep it so we're not
held liable for their phones
it's kept in the safe perfect
the other thing is you might put in
there that parent is also means Guardian
you know because I know we use parents
but we
um that the parent parent is legal
guardian yeah yeah so but parent
Guardian because we you know that would
be just even if you just did it one
place at the top to say parents equal to
Gardens I put that in the beginning
somewhere and uh parents here off here
forth where parents refer to parents
okay you did get it in there okay I
missed it because I knew you would bring
that up
I didn't do as good a job as usual
um the the other
um there's a couple places paragraph
spacing but I won't go into that some of
that was for uh formatting that fit into
the
paper okay and the bus thing I noticed
on page 17. can we go back one second
we're gonna when the bus I just uh
under the bus is that what you're
talking about bus discipline um that too
but also it's also instead of the
transportation director I think we're
referring operations director
that probably yes
um page 17.
and then being consistent with the bus
handbook or the one that we're looking
at
I would still like to see where the cell
phones are not used in the classroom at
all
um
they
they that's addressed cell phones are
only used under um under circumstances
of the teacher cousin it's okay like a
like a Cahoots game
for teachers
um Miss Marty where was that on page 17
of Boston
um it's yeah it's under that sort of
that
second to last paragraph
okay so it's
um
we'll get to graduation requirements
okay just I think before you get there
18.
just because it's an opt-out item on 18
where it says individual students and
their parents maybe Quest their names to
be withheld from this list to facilitate
such requests we have prepared an
opt-out form for your use you might
think about putting that in bold so
people see that it's an opt-out just for
highlighting purposes so people
recognize that
and you're thinking that uh starting
with the term individual students yeah
just those two sentences just to pop
them out might be something
that would be part of their 504
and that would be acceptable
we have a student currently that has
that
federal law with Trump
um
90 attendance on page 23.
thank you Miss Katie for pointing out
that I had the word five and the number
seven
on students can accumulate five and then
parenthesis seven absences per class
each semester that should be seven going
to the four day week seven to seven okay
I'll cross the work five oh
okay
and the other before you get your
graduation requirements
um
oh I guess I'm curious about the
driver's license suspension Dropout rule
um have we ever implemented that at all
yeah that's that's state law
okay
yeah we uh our attendance secretary
keeps track of that and we'll send a
list to
um DMV I think they sent it to DMV okay
thanks I think that's it
nothing before the graduation stuff
criteria so you ready for that
discipline plan on page 9
a little bit you used to just have four
quadrants
um
so again with uh our staff has improved
their classroom management quite a bit
we've been hitting it pretty hard over
the last couple years and now the staff
is starting to take a little bit more
responsibility for the discipline
management of minor behaviors and so I
wanted to make sure that was reflected
in the student handbook so the minor
the classroom disruptions the teachers
will take care of the detentions and
things like that and then once it gets
past that after some offenses then it'll
go to Administration or in-school
suspension or out of school suspension
those things so that was a change I
wanted you to be at least aware of it
looks the same but it's different
all right so Brandy graduation
requirements are on page 20 starting on
page 26.
so the chains were from 56 credits which
is in board policy we made that change
at some point last year so it did match
the student handbook but that actually
was after the squisher started with the
distance credits so Mr Katie's correct
um so we will need to make a change to
for the policy on that I don't know if
accepting the handbook with the credits
does that or if you need to do that
later I'm not sure on that but um we
will drop the credits down to 52 credits
because the students can only earn 56 so
an incoming freshman on the seven period
day 156 credits total and so we dropped
that to 52 from 56. uh we'll we'll still
keep four years of English four years of
math four years of Science and then
technically it's four years of social
studies with the government econ
students can earn EK their personal
finance Credit in the econ class as long
as the personal finance
economics so that will be a that will be
taken care of there senior project will
not be a standalone class this coming
year a lot of that has to do with
Staffing with only having three English
teachers three
that that won't that'll be won't be a
central class but it'll be a check box
and I'll get more into details on that
at a different time
it'll be taken care of basically in
their English classes
because the state the state requirement
is a is a research paper and a
presentation
and that part will be taking care of the
English classrooms the present that the
other stuff will be taken care of during
a night okay
incoming seniors
that was a this senior class was already
a concern with that because they would
have been the last class converting from
the sixth period to the lock
so last year's senior class was the last
one yes so we're right now
if they've already earned their eight
eight map eight science eight English
and that then yes so most most of the
change is electives elective credits I
have a question about the senior project
what if they're doing dual credit
classes and they're not actually in the
building but they are enrolled
um how is that going to happen
there's still going to be a presentation
piece
in those presentations okay and so we
can we can we can work with that okay so
it will be worked in
yeah okay
we will find a way
we always do
um I guess on page quickly on page 30 if
we just kind of scroll I don't know if
people are ready to scroll down there I
have a question on those academic
recognitions
um is where's stem fit in because we
were giving credit it seems like we were
giving recognition for stem
um and has that gone by the wayside
where's that our current graduation
requirements
it's kind of a new Point
um and uh there was no designation on a
diploma
and so there's no way to know if a
student had a stem diploma or not it was
actually kind of something that the
state kind of did and didn't
really have
okay that was just I didn't see it there
and we sort of had it before and someone
was curious I asked our counselor about
that before she left and she said well
they're all checking those boxes so okay
by out of the four years of Science and
the four years in math that was the big
one
there were a few others but in our
kitchen
I just want some clarification for the
valedictorian salinatory and if they are
enrolled but are taking dual credit
classes the entire senior year are they
still eligible for me they're still
eligible perfect there was a change in
uh in that thank you valedictorian
salutatorian
um
we had an issue this past year our
valedictorian
um
transferred to us his junior year well
actually I'm sorry our student with the
highest GPA transferred to us his junior
year and was with us Junior and Senior
year and could was not eligible for
valedictorian because the language said
they had to earn two-thirds of their
credits from tree Sherman high school
so we made a change to make that
um
to be considered for selection is
Valedictorian or salutatorian students
must have enrolled at Priest River
lamanna High School by the end of their
first quarter of their junior year
so that that would allow a kid to still
earn at least half their credits from
future Ramona High School dual credit
they're still earning credits after each
other my high school
and maintain the full-time enrollment as
defined by Idaho cold code what that
protects us from as a student who only
takes the two classes
their senior year they're enrolled in
dual credit classes their role in full
credit classes
they can still be full-time okay because
that that dual credit still counts
towards hours of enrollment with us and
full time is four clock hours by the
state of Idaho okay and so as long as
they are in four o'clock hours worth of
classes they are full-time student with
us all right
should we be changing where it says a
2.0 right there since we're looking at a
2.5
that's different that's a different
thing yeah yeah that's still C average
we're just talking about the average
mystery okay
that's correct that hazard
what page is that
um I'm trying to think it's uh probably
30.
yeah no it's it's correct obviously
it's just identifying which is yeah see
I I had nothing else
up there
I like as I said Mr George if I'd be
happy to
fine tune if you would like me to I saw
I've already spent like eight hours
formatting it to fit
and as fewer Pages possible okay thank
you it looks really good though it looks
I do have one one reminder is that uh
remember last fall we adopted some of
the state policies regarding
apprenticeships and work counting
towards credits yes um so make just just
a reminder that I don't mention that
specifically in here but it is import
policy so I wanted to know if someone
asked you a question about that is
covered in board policy I feel like
duplicating it in there I've had a few
parents already come and talk to me
their kids have have apprenticeship
opportunities and questions of how they
can and I've assured them that that's in
board policy we're going to protect your
kids they're still our student so
perfect yeah because I've had a couple
of contractors that have said I'm still
very interested in doing that yep if
they have a job at Burger Express I
believe it's every 10 hours a week we
can give them the credit if they get
those 10 hours a week okay
okay
good so do you want to do we want to
approve them separately sure
um
I would make a motion to approve the
Priest River lamanna High School
handbook with those changes that we have
proposed
floor to accept the lamanna high school
book or a handbook handbook thank you
with the changes do I have a second I
second that okay all those in favor say
aye aye aye
thank you
okay
next Wednesday Idaho Hill
at least on our schedule
um I
I don't have anything to say unless you
have any questions for me
um
or suggestions
the the one that I was wondering about
and I don't know if it's needed I didn't
say it for the other one but I'm
wondering where you talked about this
start time for this school it's the page
with the school calendar on it
um I just wondered if it it's somewhere
above the start time it might say
um
just remind people it's a four day
school week
oh no it's down for it's down further
it's on
um
it's down under it's actually a waist
down right there
right
you know just maybe reminding people
somewhere along there that it's um
and under the school holiday one which I
think is down the schools start
well the one I'm looking at is the one
that says West Bonner County School
District the school calendar with the
dates and then it has a start time and
tardy Bell it's down
um Susie it's down
um
it was down a ways I guess well it's not
that far
that would be great if we could get that
in there
okay and the other schools also oh may
be right there
yes when you scroll down just a little
bit more you'll see where it says that
and you might just remind people it's a
four-day school week or something okay
so what did you
do on Monday through Thursday Monday
through Thursday I think so just yeah
I'm afraid people are going to look at
this and they'll remember they'll
remember but it's going to be new for
people
um
and then the only other thing I saw was
on the immunization the immunization law
I think we updated our policy last
we shortened our pot we sh we shortened
the immunization law and child because
it says child born after September 1st
2005 and those kids would be long gone
and that I don't know what page that is
on yours
I know I do I don't see the page number
somewhere
there right there that that section and
I'd have to I don't remember the offhand
the policy number but we shortened that
um the state shortened the debt those
numbers of policies of the immunization
and that would be the same for I don't
know
um I think it'll be the same probably
for the lake yeah and then the pre one
might have just referenced
may have gotten rid of that and just
referenced the law so that might be the
easier way to do it okay I I because I'm
trying to see if there but again that
was that was updated in the law in our
policy
I think
okay and I think that was it I always
think that was pretty much it was that
was the big one that I kind of saw
because it's I remembered it us going
through that okay do I have a motion to
accept
student handbook for Priest River
um or Idaho I'll make a motion to accept
the handbook for Idaho Hill Elementary
okay I have a first do I have a second
okay second I have a second from last
year Brown all those in favor of
accepting
hi hi
um and
um it's the Priest Lake Elementary and
it would be I think Susie the same thing
where that immunization could be
probably shortened and updated that was
I think the main one that I saw
and I can't remember where it is I'm
looking through to see if I can find it
and then maybe put on the calendar page
just remind people it's four day school
week right same thing yeah
that's basically the same thing
if it's here and I'm just trying to see
if
they're very similar yeah
so I would just update it okay on that
one
okay
and so
um so I would make a motion to approve
ment so to have a motion to accept
Priest Lake Elementary handbook yes I'll
make a motion you have a motion
a second
favor say aye aye aye I'll make a motion
to adjourn
oh Priest River sorry
usually these are over two months but I
mean usually we get one that's 300 Pages
at this time of the year so 227 Pages
not bad
okay okay
any questions
um page seven I found those URLs for the
schoolloop.com don't work yeah it didn't
work nope I checked that one
and then the immunization policy too
needs to be that would be the same and
just
it was a couple of months ago that we
updated that so
those are the two things
and then I didn't
did you have on there written Monday
through Thursday also for the elementary
Thursday yeah
okay
anything else where the hours are
because I don't have the counter in mind
and I'm just I'm assuming and I didn't
cross check it with our milk breakfast
our meal prices but I'm assuming
everybody updated the only thing
um I don't know if the bus and can get
to the junior high-end time so I might
have to do like a few minutes adjustment
or where they pick up and I may have to
change my
pick up place for pickup parents okay
but what I tried to do for at my site
was allow parent to pick up earlier
because we don't have to go as many
minutes
and so and then buses have to follow a
certain schedule to when the other
schools get out and so they can be later
that used to be opposite we used to have
our
um buses picked up first and then our
Walkers picked up
okay so I adjusted it based on
the length of the day
okay okay any other changes
before all those in favor or wait I need
a motion to accept
um
River Elementary student handbook I'll
make a motion to accept Priest River
first I'll second that
hi
I'll make a motion to adjourn I'll
second that all right
all right
um